We're sort of signaling caution here. We
have not added to equities.
>> We want to be positioned for a rebound.
>> The US is the best house in a bad equity
neighborhood.
>> The market as a whole probably still has
some mean reversion.
>> We've got a bullish and bearish
tug-of-war going on here.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Win surve starts
right now. Coming into Thursday
following a prime time address.
We are on track to complete all of
America's military objectives shortly.
We're going to hit them extremely hard
over the next two to three weeks. We're
going to bring them back to the stone
ages where they belong. If there is no
deal, we are going to hit each and every
one of their electric generating plants
very hard. When this conflict is over,
the strait will open up naturally. Gas
prices will rapidly come back down.
Stock prices will rapidly go back up.
>> The president offering very little news,
sticking with a 2 to 3 week timeline,
leaving the straight formers closed,
fueling another move higher in crude and
weighing heavily on risk appetite,
sending equities lower, stocks trimming
a two-day bounce. And here we are back
in whipssaw land as people take a look
and say, "Okay, it might be now two to
three weeks rather than one to two
weeks, but we're talking about escalate
to deescalate and that could potentially
introduce the uh damage that people have
been worried about to physical
infrastructure." Economics, Oxford
economics, Ryanu uh said something
really interesting. He said that the
military timeline differs from the
economic one. And given how long the
straight is going to be closed for, you
can assume $113 on average for the
second quarter for Brent Cruz. And that
materially changes estimates.
>> Brutal. That's a big change in the
outlook. We've talked about this
repeatedly. This market wants two
things. End the hostilities, get energy
moving again. And after that address
last night, no indication you'll get
either anytime soon,
>> especially when it comes to the straight
of Hermoose. The president once again
said that the United States is not as
reliant on it. So, it's up to other
countries. He said that they should
really go in there, muster the courage,
and try to open it up. Or he then
offered another scenario where if the
hostilities end, it will just naturally
open up. But the problem is right now
the game is changing for the Iranians
and they want to start charging vessels
to come through and they are going to
decide which countries should be allowed
through depending on which flag is on
the vessel.
>> The next phase of this is the data the
earnings that come out in the next
several weeks. The guidance that comes
from corporate America and leaders
around the world. This is the data so
far and this is the good news. This is
the good news as we approach payrolls
Friday. The data so far has been good.
Three for three on Wednesday. retail
sales, ADP, ISM, pretty decent across
the board.
>> Yeah. The bad news, the rub is that
prices paid, the component that you
people were looking at, rose to the
highest level in ISM going back to 2022.
Even when you look at sentiment surveys,
people are really concerned about the
inflationary impacts. This is what's
going to affect margins. This is what's
going to affect outlook. How do
consumers respond to that? Yes, retail
sales were strong for February. At what
point does this higher cost start to
suck up some of the oxygen in the room?
And Tanker Trankers said to their
knowledge, not a single LG tanker
departed via the straight during March
of 2026. To your point, maybe the
military conflict is on one time, but
the economic conflict is going to be
felt for weeks and months to come and it
might be 6 months potentially once
hostilities end, then we get normal
flows back to the street.
>> Brent crude right now up 7% 10 away on
Brent this morning. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with David Stubs of
Alphacore as a two-day equity rally
stores. Ed Mills of Raymond James as
President Trump vows to continue strikes
on Iran and Steven Shaw of the Shaw
Group as crude climbs once again. We
begin this hour with President Trump
offering no clear offramp for the war
with Iran. Our team coverage starts
right now with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
in Washington. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump sought to reassure Americans that
the war in Iran is in the national
interest as he maintains that the US is
nearing completion of its military
objectives. Still, he also previewed
that the conflict could soon escalate as
he renewed threats to hit energy
infrastructure. In fact, a person
familiar with the matter tells us that
Vice President JD Vance delivered a very
similar message to intermediaries that
there will continue to be increased
threats on strategic assets until Iran
agrees to a deal. This White House is
maintaining that diplomacy continues and
is ongoing, though at least publicly,
Iran has so far denied being in formal
negotiations with the US. And our own
analysts at Bloomberg Economics say they
are expecting a short-term escalation
before this turns into what they are
calling a lowintensity war. It felt
clear that President Trump was trying to
defend against foreign policy decisions,
but also defend against some of those
domestic policy impacts as Americans pay
more for prices at the pump. And we
already knew that affordability was
emerging as that key messaging as we
head into the midterms. And while the
Pentagon has outlined those tactical
successes of this mission, including
degrading Iran's military capabilities
and hitting more than 11,000 targets, we
didn't get any new solutions from
President Trump when it comes to some of
those strategic setbacks. Of course,
most notably the closure of the Strait
of Hermuz. John, as you well know,
President Trump ramped up the pressure
yesterday when it came to urging allies
who get their energy supplies from the
strait to take the lead in securing it.
But as Amarie mentioned, he also said
that he thinks that it will quote open
up naturally once this conflict
resolves.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in the
nation's capital. Tyler, we'll catch up
with you again soon. It's been a
confusing time through the week so far.
On Monday, open the straight or else. On
Tuesday, the straight is someone else's
problem. On Wednesday, a mix of Monday
and Tuesday.
>> And ultimately, what I find fascinating
is that markets continue to respond to
this. And it seems like they are looking
for some signal. Yesterday, the fact
that there was a rally on the heels of
something that could have been
considered a little bit more uh
conclusive with ending the war was just
completely turned around today after a
speech that didn't give what they wanted
at all. At what point does it lose its
punch, right? At what point does true
social diplomacy not have the same
effect on markets?
>> Equity futures this morning negative by
1% on the S&P. Here's the view on Wall
Street this morning. David Stubs of
Alphaore writing, "Equities end the year
higher, but with significant volatility
if the water drags on. The US is a net
energy exporter. There are also positive
aspects to higher prices." David joins
us now for more. David, good morning.
>> Morning, buddy.
>> Tell us about those positive aspects of
higher prices. Please.
>> Well, there there is the US is a net
energy exporter. If you get elevated
prices for a period of time, then the
energy complex in the United States, you
know, will respond to that. In general,
the the US is fairly insulated from the
consequences of its own actions here,
right? their energy is less than 3% of
the CPI basket. Uh there's also
tremendous tailwinds that that we came
into the the year talking about, right?
You have a lot of fiscal support from
the Biden bills and the Trump bill uh
you last year. You have the ongoing AI
buildout. You have tremendous uh you
strength across the balance sheets of
the of of consumers and businesses in
the US. So, I'm not saying that if you
you have this kind of nightmare scenario
where this plays out for months on end
that everything's going to be fine in
the United States, but relatively
speaking, uh, you that US is most more
insulated than any other major economy.
>> Looking at the S&P 500, we know what the
waitings are from sector to sector. What
does it mean for the earnings profile of
the S&P and the companies and the
exposure that they've got, not just to
the US story, but the international one
as well?
>> Well, I think the point you just made
about earning season, this is going to
be a great excuse to throw in any kind
of issue, right? and a great excuse to
not give any guidance or and you know
throw up a lot of uncertainty maybe uh
you add a dash of job cuts along with AI
we know that the CEOs will take will
take that uh excuse but I think at the
at the moment what's been illustrative
is the earnings profile has remained
very strong uh there's different ways to
to think about that but if you do a
dividend discount model for example we
started the year assuming something like
15% uh your earnings growth today it's
only about 13 that's well above the 9%
we saw in the in the 2010s and well
below the bubble territory of you know
low 20s that we saw in the late in the
late 1990s. So I think the market is
priced for a continuation of this a of
this huge AI buildout and that
ultimately is where the rubber meets the
road right we've all heard a lot the
last few days about helium you know that
being an important you know part of
semiconductor production and this is
that's when it really gets real for the
US economy and I think other economies
around the world when does this disrupt
that you huge pillar of growth and
earnings which we've seen from AI in the
last couple of years
>> the uh production of semiconductors in
particular which helium is a key
ingredient for on a broader level at
what point does the disruption to supply
chains
disrupt the AI trade and the AI build
out more materially. Just if you zoom
out, I mean, how how do you gauge that?
>> I think you gauge it from you a draw
down in the inventories that matter for
for semiconductors. Most of the the
producers to your point have two to
three months of helium uh you know uh
inventories. Those are starting to you
to draw down. I think obviously if you
were to see a much higher energy complex
you know here in in uh in the US you'd
start to see some rethink of these
energy intensive you know data centers
for example. But at the moment even with
four or five weeks into this that we
haven't really seen you know you that
impact on that particular complex. Now
we've seen dramatic impacts around the
world. Look at Asia. Look at the uh you
the rationing we're seeing in in some
economies there. Look at the stimulus
that some of the European nations are
putting in. Look at the potential for
this to morph from uh terms of trade
shock into a balance of payments issue.
So there's very severe issues around the
world. But at the moment the AI complex
seems to be untouched. It seems like the
fiscal impulse is going to leave
equities in a decent position maybe uh
not just globally but certainly in the
United States. Everyone keeps talking
about how they're going to keep pouring
money on this because that's what
politicians do especially of late. How
much does this come at the consequence
of bonds? How much does this end up to a
leading to a steepening yield curve and
a real penalization of people who are uh
trying to find safety in fixed income?
>> Absolutely. And this is the the new
world we've been in the regime change of
of fixed income and equities. you know,
fixed income, not hedging, equity draw
downs. And we've gone into this, of
course, in a fragile position, you know,
because you had years of above your
target inflation because central banks
believe rightly that in some cases that
their credibility is is somewhat thin uh
in in that regard. Uh that's what really
could make this again uh go from bad
from worse, you know. So, if we see a
tipping point where certain central
banks feel they have to act to defend
their credibility even though they're
taking a hit to growth, but that will
probably be the ECB that that does that.
Um, you know, if we get to that type of
position, that's one of the the the ways
that this gets a little nonlinear.
There's a way that this becomes more of
an annoyance or more of a difficulty
>> if they hike rates. if they have to hike
race if they're kind of you bullied into
that by you by market pricing if you see
inflation expectations become unanchored
and it's crucial to point out in the US
you've seen the opposite five year and 5
year four break evens are down by 10
basis points since the um since the war
started but in Europe they're up five
basis points small beer sure but you
that's the direction of travel and again
the ECBS history here if you go back if
you remember your history you 2011 John
Cortiche hikes twice into an energy
price uh spike and in oh as well. This
is uh I hope they've learned the lessons
and they don't do it.
>> We've heard from the Europeans just
moments ago the French president in
comments to reporters. The headlines
read as follows. It's unrealistic to
free the straight of Hmers by military
means. The Horus straight can only
reopen in consultation with Iran. Those
comments just dropped in moments ago.
>> So basically having the cooperation of
the Iranian regime which the United
States right now is obviously striking
and trying to decimate to the
president's words yesterday. This feels
very different than what the president
wants to see, which is the help of the
Europeans sending things like mind
sweepers or their part of their navy to
the Middle East to help them reopen it.
Ratta is supposed to be in Washington DC
next week according to reports and I
imagine a lot of this is going to be
brought up and potentially becomes a bit
more of a fractured discussion between
European allies and the United States.
>> The rest of the world is in a really
uncomfortable place right now. I'm sure
you've been tracking the headlines
worldwide. We've seen a series of
governments in Asia shifting to a 4-day
work week. We've seen fuel rationing in
places like Indonesia, in Sri Lanka.
This from the Australian prime minister
to start the week as well. Over the
coming weeks, if you can switch to
catching the train or the bus or tram to
work, do so. On the surface of things,
you might shake that off. But I wonder
what the next phase of that kind of
address from a prime minister is going
to be. Is it going to be if you can or
you must? Well, that's what people are
expecting that there's going to be
supply rationing come at least as soon
as this summer in places like Europe if
there isn't some resolution to this
because they are working through their
stock piles and that last shipment of
jet fuel. I keep thinking about that
from our conversation earlier is cited
to arrive and there is nothing after
that heading to the European region.
>> David, there is a deeply uncomfortable
COVID type feel
>> to some of these dynamics. How do you
see it playing out in the next few weeks
not in the US but elsewhere? I I think
it's going to be pretty rough
internationally because as you as you
said um it takes four to six weeks for
some of these you know these ships to
get there. They left it you know before
this this hit. We only got a couple of
weeks of that. Then we obviously have
four to six weeks of most in infantry.
So we're writing in our Q2 commentary
that if this is not solved in the second
quarter u the back the second half of
the year is going to see covides you
know imp impacts to the most vulnerable
economies. Who are they? that if you're
energy intensive, energy dependent, uh
you know, and you know, and also you
have some limited fiscal space and
limited, you know, space to absorb a
trade shock, you know, those countries
are going to be severely affected.
>> Is this the reason why you're not
necessarily as excited about say going
into South Korea right now or even dare
I say going into European assets given
that there's been a draw down and some
people are saying, well, this is a
favored trade before this shock and it
will be afterwards. You disagree? I I I
think well if if you could magic away
the shock I think I think that we would
we would come back to the same you kind
of principles but as you said even if
you shut it down tomorrow there's a
delay with the ships there's a delay
with the refinement and then on what
planet do we not have a sustained uh
risk premium in products from this from
this region even if the Iran Iranians
play ball right because the the
vulnerabilities have just been made you
so so clear so again if you're importing
from that region you know about
threequarters of most of it goes to Asia
I think you're looking at a sustained,
you know, shock that doesn't really
fully revert.
>> What are you paying for gasoline on the
West Coast right now?
>> I paid I paid $7.5 uh dollars a gallon
on coastal California. Inland California
is 5 and a half. Wow. So, I'm not sure
what that tells you about California,
but yes, a triple digit bill to uh to
fill up the family SUV the other day.
>> Brutal. David, it's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you, sir.
David Stubs there of Avacore. We talk
about the average in this country, $4
per gallon. I'm sure the Brits are
laughing because it's brutal over there
right now, particularly in the the other
European nations, too. But the
difference you see across this nation,
the West Coast, coastal California
pushing $7 plus in some places.
>> Yeah. Does this end up encouraging some
politicians to remove some of the gas
taxes that have been put in certain
places given the affordability issues
for a lot of them?
>> I think California needs to remember
they shut down refineries. They only
have one pipeline. They get 20% of their
products imports from places like Asia,
which right now are winding down their
economies because they don't have the
energy. So, they're in a really tough
spot.
>> Let's give an update on news worldwide
this morning. Let's get to your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey,
Yahira.
>> Hi, John. In a prime time address,
President Trump saying the US is very
close to completing its military
objectives in Iran and vowing to hit the
nation quote extremely hard over the
next two to three weeks. Still, the
speech lacked new announcements and most
notably a precise timeline for an exit.
President Trump also saying in the
address other countries need to take the
lead on reopening the streets of
Hormuse. The president saying the US
does not need the oil exported through
the critical waterway and that the
nations who depend on it should quote go
in and take it. And President Trump busy
yesterday becoming the first sitting
president to attend Supreme Court oral
arguments as the justice justices
considered a challenge to his executive
order restricting automatic birthright
citizenship. The court is scheduled to
rule by early July. That's your
Bloomberg. John
>> Yhara. Thank you. More from Yara later
this up next on the program. Staying on
track in Iran.
>> We are on track to complete all of
America's military objectives shortly.
Very shortly, we are going to hit them
extremely hard over the next two to
three weeks. When this conflict is over,
the strait will open up naturally.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Ed Mills of
Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
The problems persist. Even if this goes
on for two, three weeks and it ends
right there. This from HSBC. Even if the
straight of were to reopen soon, it
would take months for supply to
normalize. And damaged natural gas
infrastructure now means it's already a
medium-term story. And that's what this
market is starting to price in slowly
again. Equity futures down by more than
1% on the S&P 500. The NASDAQ down by
1.7. In the bond market, this is where
things get really confusing again in
fixed income because the data this week
has been better than expected. As Lisa
pointed out, the ISM came with higher
prices. Yields are up again by four
basis points, tens of 436, twos at 383.
>> Although, interestingly, you're not
necessarily seeing rate hikes getting
priced back into the futures uh curve
for the Federal Reserve. So, it's not
necessarily a rate hike type of
inflationary impulse. How quickly,
though, can this Federal Reserve cut
rates? a real question mark now given
the inflationary shock and frankly an
economy that is resilient enough to
absorb them and that is the key point
>> Brent crude this morning check it out up
by more than 7% on Brent crude to 10860
on Brent so far this morning this
morning staying on track in Iran
>> we are on track to complete all of
America's military objectives shortly
very shortly we are going to hit them
extremely hard over the next two to
three weeks regime change was not our
goal. We never said regime change, but
regime change has occurred. When this
conflict is over, the strait will open
up naturally. Gas prices will rapidly
come back down. Stock prices will
rapidly go back up.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president stirring investor anxiety
pledging more aggressive action in Iran
without concrete steps to reopen the
strain of Ed Mills of Raymond James
writing the clear desire of the US and
Iran to wind down the war will need to
be reconciled within the very narrow
diplomatic pathway. Ed joins us now for
more. Ed, welcome to the program. Can
you describe to us in a way you've
described it to clients what the next
two to three weeks might look like?
>> Yeah, John, I think that there's going
to be an intensity of the operations. I
think there is a higher probability of a
ground operation I think than the market
is prepared for. Uh at Raymond James
we've been highlighting to clients that
it will take a while for things to
return to normal once the straits of
Hormuz has reopened. Our energy team has
been doing a considerable amount of work
on that. Um and I do think that there
has been an expectation in this market
that things were going to go faster,
quicker and cleaner than expected. And
we have been telling folks some cynicism
here has been warranted and the cynicism
has actually been the thing that has
played out consistently over this last
month.
>> And when when you say ground operation,
do you mean to open up the street of
Hermoose for normal traffic or do you
mean for military uh boots on the ground
to go seize the uranium?
>> I think Amory that's to be determined. I
do think that there is a history of
President Trump once he has built up a
military capability. He uses that
military capability. So when we see how
many troops have been positioned in the
area, I I do think that there is a
obvious desire to reopen the Straits of
Hermuz. Uh but President Trump last
night did talk about that as something
more natural than kinetic. Um there has
been these conversations about the
potential operations to seize uranium.
To me, that's probably the higher
probability. I don't know exactly how
robust that is going to be. I think some
of that is to be determined. Uh but very
clearly Anorie here, President Trump is
building up pressure and was telling
even the um kind of Iranians last night
they have a choice still here that the
operations can get much more intense
unless they negotiate.
>> Ed, why give this speech last night? It
felt like the tone of this speech was
trying to get the American people on
board that maybe it was should have been
given the first week or two of the
operation. Yeah, Amory, that's what we
were discussing internally here at
Raymond James because I think there was
a hope and an expectation that a speech
a month into this was a speech to wrap
it up. Uh the tone of the speech was the
first real rationalization directly from
President Trump speaking to the American
people of exactly why and almost
preparing the American people for what
comes next. When you have all of those
comparisons to the lengths of other
wars, it is somewhat ominous. We are
hopeful that this is 2 to 3 weeks from
now. Uh but there's no guarantees. I
think that there was a hope that it was
only going to be kind of less than a
month when this started a month ago. Now
we're already extending those timelines.
Uh so making that pitch to the American
people because things are probably going
to escalate before they deescalate is
kind of my biggest takeaway from that
speech. Amory,
>> this to me is the key point, Ed, that
this was essentially preparing the
American people for whatever is to come
next. Do you have a sense of what that
could look like and how much it will
come in concert with the United Arab
Emirates, with Saudi Arabia, with other
alliances?
>> Yeah, we're seeing kind of um kind of
more of those alliances take place.
We're kind of looking at the fact that
Iran uh in their initial response uh
probably kind of drew the region more
together than than split it. Uh, one of
the key questions that we've been asking
has been how long does the United States
and Israel stay together because there
is a big concern, especially in the
national security community that I
talked to about whether or not the
endgame for the United States and the
endgame for Israel are going to be
aligned, especially if this goes much
longer than midappril here. Um, and
politically, um, you know, you do want
to have those alliances, but usually
those alliances happen before an attack.
build those cases, get the American
people on board, as we've seen gas
prices, as we've seen inflation, as
we've seen other impacts of this, you
know, as we see a market reaction to
that. Uh, the American people are going
to put more and more pressure on members
of Congress and on this administration
to wrap this up sooner rather than
later.
>> And let's just stay on international
relations. There's a very strange
dynamic to the address by the president
yesterday, and it's as follows. For a
long, long time, this country,
successive governments have wanted to
keep the likes of China out of these
regions, keep them well away, contain
any international ambition they might
have. And now we're almost inviting them
in to help solve a problem. Do we really
want the Chinese military in the
straight of former?
>> No. And I and I when we've talked to
some of the national security advisers
and uh kind of China contacts that we
have uh there is almost zero expectation
that the Chinese military will be
involved. Uh but you do have the fact
that Trump and she will ultimately meet
here over the next month and a half and
you know Trump always pulls things
together and to the extent that there
are things that he's going to be asking
China for, China's going to be asking us
for kind of adding in hey this is more
of your problem than my problem is
really the subcontext of everything that
he's saying with this tracer form. It's
like yeah it's a big issue but maybe
China needs this more. Maybe NATO
members outside the United States need
us more. Maybe France needs us more in
particular. U come in protect that. It
is not just our problem. I think this
here is a reflection John over the fact
that he does not feel as if everyone has
been willing to rally to his side on
what he sees as an existential threat to
the United States and to the world.
>> And it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Ed Mills there of Raymond James.
And you see some of that playing out the
language coming from the president
president of France a little bit earlier
on this morning.
>> Absolutely. The president of France is
basically saying we want to work in
cooperation with the Iranians to reopen
the street. Very different what this
White House wants to see.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Steven Shaw of the Shaw Group as
crude prices get absolutely whipsed to
start the new month.
We just put up the biggest 2-day rally
on the S&P 500 since May of last year.
And this morning, we're taking some of
it back. Equity futures negative here on
the S&P by 1.3, on the Nasdaq by 1.7.
The leadership in the last 24 hours
coming from consumer names and
technology, many of which were beaten up
quite badly for the month of March and I
imagine today somewhat in reverse. In
the bond market 2, 10, 30s, yields
shaping up as follows. More data this
morning, two hours away, jobless claims.
yields this morning down by up by three
basis points on twos to 38355 tens to
436. It's a really odd moment, a tense
moment in fixed income given we are
considering the hit to growth at the
same time. The data is standing up and
standing up quite well at the moment.
>> The momentum heading into this shock was
strong and actually stronger than
economists expected. If you take a look
at the Bloomberg economic surprise index
for US economic data, you can see it hit
the highest levels going back to 2023.
So there was definitely heat in the
economy and you're seeing this from all
of these upside beats. Does that mean
that we can withstand any kind of growth
shock coming from higher oil prices or
does it mean that it will read through
to higher inflation actually pressure
yields and prices higher on a consistent
level? This is a key question in tension
right now in the equity market.
>> Let's check out crude together. A move
of 7 to 8% so far this morning on Brent
and WTI. Now you might be looking at
that spread and thinking that's really
tight between Brent and WTI right now.
Well, one of the contracts is the May
contract for WTI. The other one is June.
So, when we look at Brent, we're looking
at June. When we look at WTI, we're
looking at May. So, just keep that in
mind. But ultimately, the trend is
clear. Crude is higher this morning.
Energy prices are rallying.
>> And the other trend is clear. It's going
higher in the United States. And this is
why the president had to address it
yesterday. And he said, I know that
there's going to be the short-term hit,
not just to the stock market, but also
your energy prices. Gasoline is going up
across the country. It's north of $4 a
barrel a gallon. What happens as we head
into peak driving season if that becomes
closer to five across the country? We
just heard from David Stubs. He's paying
$7 a gallon in California. In
California, it's 5.81 a gallon across
the entire state and aggregate and we
are just a month in.
>> $7 plus on coastal California. These are
real numbers, European style numbers in
some cases. So, and it shows how
connected California to your point AMH,
uh, how close California is linked to
Asian slows and some of the global
disruptions, not to mention some of the
gas taxes. And I wonder if that's going
to become a question.
>> Brent up stocks down. How many times
have we said that over the last 5 weeks?
Three hours away from the cash open.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yhira.
>> Hi, John. that riskoff sentiment that
you described is showing up in the MAD 7
after President Trump failed to reassure
investors when it comes to the timeline
of this war. So that is weighing on the
highest growth names in this market as
we see yields tick higher. So names like
Nvidia and Tesla down about 2.5%.
Uh meanwhile take a look at the aluminum
stocks. They are also falling this
morning. Honor reporting that the Trump
administration is set to overhaul its
steel and aluminum tariffs. Raw metals
would still face tariffs as high as 50%
while finished goods would be taxed at
25% but on the full value of the product
meaning that companies may end up paying
more overall since the rates will be
applied to a bigger base. And we end on
Global Star. Those shares are surging uh
10% in the pre-market on a report in the
FT that Amazon is in talks to acquire
the company as Amazon tries to compete
with SpaceX and it SpaceX and its
dominant uh Starlink network. Many have
taken notice of this company and its
ability to uh compete with SpaceX. So
shares are up 230% over the last year.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. on our radar this morning. In a
prime time address, President Trump
saying the US is very close to
completing its military objectives in
Iran and vowing to hit the nation quote
extremely hard over the next two to
three weeks. The president also
declaring other countries need to take
the lead on the straight of Hmus.
The countries of the world that do
receive oil through the Hormone Strait
must take care of that passage. They
must cherish it. So to those countries
that can't get fuel, many of which
refuse to get involved in the
decapitation of Iran, I have a
suggestion. Number one, buy oil from the
United States of America. We have
plenty. And number two, go to the
straight and just take it.
>> The president suggesting the critical
waterway would quote open up naturally
once the conflict with Iran ends. And
finally, the Trump administration
preparing to outline a tiered system for
its broad tariffs on steel and aluminum
products. Just one year I run from
liberation day.
>> The United States can no longer continue
with a policy of unilateral economic
surrender. We cannot pay the deficits of
Canada, Mexico, and so many other
countries. We are finally putting
America first. The United States will
implement reciprocal tariffs on other
nations.
>> One year on Bremo, 12 months is up. What
a 12 months it's been for the trade
story. So now we're looking at a
clarification. This is a simplification
of saying you don't have to measure how
much steel and aluminum is actually in
specific goods and then figure out that
that's 50% tax. It gets very confusing.
We'll just have a flat tax for 25% uh
finished goods. Taking a step back, this
just shows how unstable the parameters
are for any kind of policy analysis
right now. Sure, we're one year on.
We're getting clarity on policy. It's
still being created. Now we've got an
oil shock. How do you analyze all this
and understand how to price it into the
future if it is changing at such a rapid
pace? And this is one of the big
challenges right now to really come up
with even a framework to look at the
current moment. Well, the administration
is fixing a crisis of their own making.
And this has been a massive headache for
corporate America when it comes to
derivatives of steel and aluminum in
products. So, say you're going to import
an aluminum pipe. Okay, that's still
going to be 50%. But if you have say
less material in a certain product, that
rate's going to drop to 25%. And the
real issue for a lot of companies has
been something like this, a little
aluminum or steel on the cap of a lip
gloss. You were getting hit with a crazy
tariff. Basically, now they're saying
that's going to drop to zero. This was a
crisis in their own making. It's been a
problem for corporate America. Corporate
America's been lining up at the door of
the administration saying you need to
simplify it. And they said, "Oh, look,
look, we heard you. We're simplifying
it. Now it's just three tiers. Let's
just leave the steel story to one side
and just think about the last 12 months.
You were in the Rose Garden that day
when the president made that address and
initially we thought maybe it would be a
baseline tariff of 10%. And I remember
the market started to rally
>> and I sent you a a picture. These are
the real rates
>> with these crazy numbers on. And in the
weeks after that, before we got some
form of capitulation, not total
capitulation, but the weeks after that,
the forecast was this would lead to
really high inflation here in the United
States and cause tons of economic
problems. 12 months later, we haven't
seen a great deal of that relative to
what people expected 12 months ago.
>> No, we haven't. And that's a lot what a
lot of individuals in the Federal
Reserve have talked about and a lot of
individuals of course in the
administration that this has been
one-time hits. Companies have been able
to deal with it and maybe pass along
some of it, you know, and some of it
they've been able to just have to
absorb. I think what the problem right
now is when you're talking about what's
going on currently in terms of energy
prices is there's really no outline of
what can happen and consumers might just
start to make their own decisions
without have companies being able to
really change anything because
discretionary spending more of that is
just going to have to go to energy
>> 12 months on we've got another supply
side shock crude prices surging as the
straight of former remains effectively
closed President Trump downplayed the
economic fallout of the war so far
>> many American Americans have been
concerned to see the recent rise in
gasoline prices here at home. This
short-term increase has been entirely
the result of the Iranian regime. When
this conflict is over, the strait will
open up naturally. Gas prices will
rapidly come back down. Stock prices
will rapidly go back up.
>> Steven Shul of the Shaw Group writing
homes remains at risk and ceasefire
prospects are weak pointing to a
prolonged geopolitical disruption to
global flows. Stephen joins us now for
more. Steven, welcome to the program.
Let's just run with the base case as
presented by the president. Things can
change, I know that, but let's run with
two to three weeks. Where would this
energy market be? Where will it be in
two to three weeks?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, with the rate
we're going right now, the way we've
modeled it for the next actually three
weeks, the uh current um time frame for
the spot market right now is $103 a
barrel. wasn't our top was our initial
we'll call it our one standard deviation
envelope and all of the simulations that
we've run in potential price paths. Now
that we are well beyond that what do we
do? We begin to look for that next. And
because of the volatility that's been
introduced, we have extremely fat tails
on the distributions of potential
outcomes. Uh three weeks since we could
be looking at $133 uh in oil. So John,
what what we're essentially looking at
or doing is the United States, it's oil
and the contract that we're following in
this case, NX WTI, that's been the
cheapest barrel in the world. And now
what's happened is the arbitrage is well
uh well established. So now you're
having a tremendous amount of buying
interest coming in from Asia, coming in
from Europe, and hence we've been the
cheapest barrel, but because of that
buying interest, because you just can't
get oil from Asian refiner from from
your typical sources, you're going to
start bidding that oil higher. And
that's what I think we're starting to
see in the Gulf Coast is that US prices
have been suppressed over the past four
weeks, but that now it's starting to
catch up to reality. And therefore, over
the next three weeks, as this disruption
continues, certainly the path is higher
to our second tier uh envelope, which
is, like I said, $130, $134 a barrel. Is
that high enough to cause demand
destruction for people to pull back on
their use of oil or their ability to get
oil enough to get oil prices back lower
in the near term?
>> Based on recent observations and
economic theory, no, it's not there yet.
Uh we have to keep in mind that demand
elasticities for gasoline have changed
tremendously. I'll give myself as an
example. I drive a plugging electric
hybrid. I fill my car up about once
every two to three months. Now juxtapose
this back 2008 when oil prices peaked at
$149 a barrel. I was filling my SUV up
every single week. So that was a
incredible pain point. That has changed
over the last 15 years. So that part was
that is so what has happened is back
then if we adjust for inflation $3.60 60
cents at the pump was that that that
pressure point that that's that
inflection point where demand started to
fall off. We are higher because we've
introduced more variables into the
equation. So based on what we've seen
recently, i.e. we're still a dollar
below a gallon where we were in 2022 and
that did not destroy demand. So we'll
look to see oil prices up of $150 $160 a
barrel before I think we start to see
the market correct and demand
destruction kick in. Stephen, are we
done, you think, with verbal
intervention? Has it run its course?
>> Um, well, are we done verbal? So, you
know, trying to trone the market or or
trying to um um I I don't think so. I
mean, I think it's just something as an
analyst, as a trader, you just have to
endure. And so, this is why we look at
the spread markets. The the forward
curve in any given market is your
indication of of where we're potentially
going. And so when we see that when we
look at what what has transpired now
over the past week in WTI with the curve
that is an extreme bid or price increase
on the front end of the curve for those
prompt barrels. But that is now also
starting to cascade down long from the
curve. And then we look at a
relationship between DE uh WTI Dubai or
or you know for instance we have oil
production in West Texas delivered into
Houston that is trading at a $12
discount to the global price of oil and
that arbit excuse me that back and
there's a backquidation along that
meaning that there's a strong bid for
West Texas oil and hence why uh we're
still bullish on this market. And so
regardless, you you could verbally you
you could address in the market and say
anything you want. The market is reality
and what the reality is telling us it's
that prices are here higher and they're
going to be higher for longer certainly
over the next three weeks.
>> Will energy companies capitalize by
actually reinvesting and expanding
production
>> eventually. But what we'll see now and
and if you're looking at quarterly
earnings, uh quarterly earnings for if
you were a refiner looked great. I mean,
you you have um diesel fuel that's
trading at $170 a barrel against $100
crude oil or gasoline trading at $130 a
barrel against $100 oil. So, the
refinery margins are going to look
extremely great uh coming through the
first quarter. Now, as we transition to
the second quarter, as we've said, that
US prices are starting to catch up. So,
that is going to be a bigger hit. Now
that that is what has been a boon for GF
coast refineries that wide matt margin
between product prices and crude oil
prices that's catching up and oil prices
are catching up and that's going to
begin to squeeze margins. So we're going
to see a lot of volatility. Uh what was
good for refiners last quarter is
shaping up to be especially when demand
is starting to pick up coming into the
second quarter. So you've got the double
whammy of domestic oil prices catching
up to the global price of oil at a time
second quarter going into summer where
demand for the output of that refinery
is going to surge.
>> Stephen, I don't just want to talk about
price. I want to talk about shortages
and outright shortages. This from the
Australian prime minister. We mentioned
his comment earlier on today. Over the
coming weeks, if you can switch to
catching the train or bus or tram to
work, do so. The EU Commission
suggesting people travel less across
Europe. You can track. You've got
visibility on the tankers that are
arriving and won't be arriving. You can
see the cushion that some of these
countries have got, the supply they've
got, the inventories. How close are we
to a shortage where these governments
are actively telling the people to stop
doing things in the same way that they
are in Asia at the moment?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So looking at the
prompt month, which has about three more
weeks, uh that time frame that that the
president supposedly says we're going to
be out of there or or wrap this up, uh
the market's highly skeptical. So I'll
give it that 3-week time range where
we'll start to see certainly economies
in the Far East and now we're starting
to see economies because that Atlantic
basin spread starting to tighten up.
Economies in Europe begin to uh seize
up. Here in the United States, oil
inventories are sitting at a three, we
just got the weekly update yesterday,
sitting at a three-year high. So, there
is oil here, but the problem is it's not
where it needs to be. So, even though we
do have and and the president might want
to say buy American oil, that's great.
But tanker logistics limitations,
there's just a limit to how much that
can say that. So, while here in the US,
as you said, oil prices or excuse me,
oil supplies are are are fat. three year
highs. Uh they're really beginning to
seize up and that and that's why we're
starting to see the Brent market
kind of or WTI now outperforming Brent
at this point because uh European
buyers, refineries are coming out of
their m once they come out of the refi
maintenance season, they're going to be
buying a lot more oil, a lot more US
oil, but there is a limit to how much.
So we are two to three weeks away from a
shortage that we're already seeing
that's that's going to grow
exponentially over the next couple of
weeks.
>> Stephen, it's good to see you. Thanks
for dropping by and get us up to speed.
Stephen Sh there of the Short Group with
some sobering comments.
>> Where we'll be in the next two to three
weeks. Yeah. And we're talking about he
was primarily talking about the United
States. But you look at Southeast Asia
as you were mentioning about 90% of all
of their oil and gas comes from imports
and they don't have the uh capital to
really invest in supporting that. So
that's leading to people staying home.
That's leading also to people not being
able to fly there. So that's also
affecting tourism. It's a double whammy
on all sides.
>> Frank Crude around 109. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhira has more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. The UAE is pushing for the UN
to authorize a range of measures,
including force, to reopen the Straits
of Hormuse. The Gulf nation is calling
for the organization to take quote
immediate action. A virtual meeting will
be held today to discuss a plan. GOP
leaders striking a deal to reopen the
Department of Homeland Security, ending
the six-w weekl long shutdown. The
agreement, which had been rejected by
President Trump last week, fully funds
the department through September. A vote
is expected to come as early as today.
And Stalantis is in talks to build EVs
in Canada with its Chinese partner
Zenang Leap Motor. Sources telling us
talks are in the early stages, but if
they proceed, this would mark the first
major auto investment from China after
the countries agreed to reduce tariffs
on Chinese-made EVs. Dr. Bloomberg
briefs. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, pushing ahead to payrolls.
>> You look at certain indicators that
would tell you the uh labor market is
super tight. Uh there are labor
shortages in certain industries. I think
that hiring rate will remain low um for
the foreseeable future.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Nita
Richardson of ADP. Live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks are declining this morning. We're
down by more than 1% on the S&P 16 on
the NASDAQ and the bond market. Yields
creeping just a little bit higher 2's 10
and 30s with this move in energy crude
higher. Brent pushing much higher higher
by around 8% right now just short of 109
and Sennis this morning we're looking
ahead to the data pushing ahead to
payrolls
you look at certain indicators that
would tell you the uh labor market is
super tight there are labor shortages in
certain industries people are saying
it's very difficult to find a job right
and that's why they're not quitting
before the conflict started uh
disposable personal income which is
essentially income adjusting for uh
inflation and taxes was already slowing.
I think that hiring rate will remain low
um for the foreseeable future. So here's
the latest this morning. Traders looking
ahead to the March jobs report with our
survey expecting 65,000 jobs to be
added. The data will follow an upside
surprise in the ADP private payrolls
report. Nita Richardson of ADP writing
although hiring has slowed, pay growth
has been stable which helps support
consumer spending. Nita joins us now for
more. Nina, this is a central question
for a lot of people right now. Just how
tight is this labor market away from
payrolls growth? What do you see with
things like unemployment? And what do
you see with things like wages?
>> Hi, good morning. I think we have two
stories coming out of the labor market.
Pretty steady, but lower than we're used
to hiring. Uh we have two straight
months of plus 60,000 private sector
hiring in the ADP numbers. But the wage
story is telling something entirely
different. That there's more tightness
than is generally appreciated. We saw
pay growth for job changers accelerate
in March going from 6.3 to 6.6% which
doesn't sound like a lot, but in the
context of low hiring. It's it's strong
uh signal that wages are still pretty
tight. And when I look at just hourly
workers, um, over the last three months,
wage growth has been higher every single
month of 20126 than we've seen in any
month of the previous two years,
suggesting that there is some tightness
out there uh in in terms of getting new
hires on board.
>> YLA, this suggests that the labor
market's in a much better spot than some
people give it credit for, even with
these low levels. Does that mean, as
John's been talking about, people can go
ask for a raise to offset the increase
in gas prices?
>> I wish it was that simple because even
though the labor market has been
incredibly resilient, it's incredibly
fragmented. Most of the jobs are coming
from one sector, healthcare, and that's
been the case for the past two years. In
fact, um, from 2023 to 2025, three out
of every four new jobs created in this
country came from the healthc care
sector. If you extend that trend out 10
years, uh, the health care sector
becomes the dominant sector of the
United States. And so this sector is
also being defined by lowpaying jobs. At
the same time, we're seeing some steady
hiring. We're also seeing an increase in
part-time share. That means people are
taking part-time jobs. They might be
taking second jobs to make ends meet.
These jobs may not be the full-time 401k
jobs and they may not be the jobs that
give you bargaining power when it comes
to higher salaries.
>> Neil, what are we going to learn
tomorrow when we get the uh March
payrolls report given that a lot of
people say it's already outdated based
on it not taking into effect the full
shock that we saw in March?
>> Yeah, I think uh we'll we'll always get
before a shock as a baseline. We'll see
how healthy the labor market was going
into that shock. And that's particularly
important on Friday, remember, because
January and February s showed such wide
swings in the government data. Up so
much in January, down so much in
February. So March is kind of the the
referee of the first two months of the
year. If we see a a labor market that
looks like consensus, looks like the ADP
private sector number about 6065, at
least we'll see some cooperation that
the labor market was okay going into the
shock. Um, and then we can track whether
or not this uh particular shock, the
duration, the impact will have um a
stronghold on hiring. I have to point
out in the labor market numbers that we
produced on Wednesday, small firms
really uh carried the torch for the
labor market. If small firms are
generating this growth, if the health
care sector is generating this growth,
there could be some buffer if services
are are really the the stalwarts here.
>> That is an upside surprise we saw
yesterday and a welcome one at that.
Nila, thank you. Nita Richardson there
of ADP on the jobs data so far and your
point on the sector stuff healthcare
expected a snapback in healthcare
tomorrow morning.
>> Yeah. Which I guess is a good thing
considering that that was the weak spot
but it's a bad thing because it's sort
of independent of any kind of cycle. So
it's not like you can decide to hire
more people because we're all getting
older and need to get a lot more health
attention.
>> Yeah, absolutely. The health sector has
been the only thing that's really been
pulling this market up. the problem the
Federal Reserve is going to have. We
have slowing labor market and higher
energy costs with every energy analyst
saying it's only going to get worse.
This is going to be incredibly difficult
few months.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Jinela of Apollo, Mike Pal of Black
Rockck, Claudia Irrigan of Bank of
America, and a whole lot more. The
second hour of Blind Surveillance is
just around the corner.
From the market perspective, we are
underpricing economic impacts of this
energy shock.
>> There is a little bit too lax thinking
around some of the inflation pressures.
Few more weeks of this, we're going to
have to take down our GDP forecast.
>> It might last longer than a lot of us
expected originally.
>> You could open up the straight tomorrow.
Impacts are still coming.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this.
Following the biggest 2-day rally on the
S&P 500 since May, we're lower across
the board. On the S&P down by 1.2, on
the NASDAQ by 1.6 in the bond market,
following some pretty decent data in the
last 24 hours, yields creeping higher
again, up by five at the front end of
the curve. Twos at 385, encouraged by
this move in crude. Brent crude up big
time this morning following the
president's address. We reclaim 109 on
Brent. We're higher by 8%.
>> Yeah. Now, the question isn't whether
the uh conflict is going to end in the
next week or two. it's going to be how
much is the escalation going to
potentially create some sort of
confilration in the region and
potentially damage to regional oil
supplies in the meantime because
ultimately that was what the president
was preparing us for. I have to say my
mind's spinning. I'm trying to
understand exactly how much heat there
was in the US economy coming into this
what the shock could mean for it and
exactly how long it can go on before
it's irreparable to go back in order to
the uh momentum that we saw beforehand.
It is a very difficult scenario to
invest in which is the reason why you
see a lot of people sitting on their
hands and then these whipssaw movements
in markets.
>> The energy market is focused on the
street of Hermoose and yesterday the
president said the the strait must take
care of that passage the individuals who
use it meaning not the United States.
And then he said it might just open up
naturally if we learned anything from
history. What happened in 2023 with the
Red Sea was that we are still not at
normal flows of what they were before
the Houthi started attacking ships. And
the energy crisis in Asia right now is
being felt so deeply that we are not
feeling it here. But maybe it is going
to get a lot worse in the months to
come. South Korea's president in address
to the parliament today, please save
every drop of fuel. Don't use it. Take
public transportation.
>> In addition to that, we're also tracking
threats to financial institutions. We've
seen the reported threats against
Goldman Sachs in Paris. This from City
just moments ago. that Paris employees
will be working remotely as a
precaution, but also in Frankfurt
employees working remotely Thursday and
Friday.
>> We're looking for more details. We don't
know exactly the parameters of this. It
shows the second order effects of this,
which is questions around terrorism,
questions around disruptions to both
cyber security as well as physical
security around the world given the
support of Iran, the way they've
operated in the past. Again, this is a
deeply uncertain moment. The market
wants to look past geopolitics. is
having a hard time doing it.
>> And what city is saying comes after the
headquarters of Goldman Sachs in Paris
was placed under police surveillance
yesterday because of concern when it
comes to threats that US authorities
believe is linked to an Iranian group.
>> Equity futures right now in the S&P
negative by 1.2% just about session
lows. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Jim Zela of Apollo as the
president's address upends risk
appetite. Mike Pal of Black Rockck
lowering his outlook on US equities and
Cladio Irrigzan of Bank of America
expecting crude to remain in triple
digits for the remainder of the year. We
begin this out with stocks falling
following the president's shift from a
near end to the war to now committing to
more aggressive action against Iran over
the next two to three weeks. The
president of Apollo Global Management,
Jim Zela, joins us now for more. Jim,
good morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> We have got a lot to cover. What
interesting times. You've called this a
confidence shock. A confidence shock.
What does that mean for growth?
Well, I think you know, and I was
listening to this show the last 30, 40
minutes, and I've been doing this a long
time, and I sometimes think it's
sometimes there's days we should just go
out and take a walk around for 30
minutes because I think we've lost the
plot.
>> That bad.
>> Um, I think we've lost the plot on two
big themes. Um, you know, the first is
the what's really going on in the world
of credit, which I'm sure we'll talk
about. Um, and the second is the the
economic strength of the underlying
economy. Um certainly we have a uh a
very challenging issue with what's going
on in the Middle East right now with
this conflict and I'm sus I'm suspicious
of it ending in two or three weeks as
many others are. But you just had a
quarter with record M&A literally record
M&A in the United States and globally
and we had the biggest IG issuance
almost of all time. Those were two
indicators of a lot of economic uh
tailwinds uh along with the capback
cycle. So I think we lost a plot on the
econ the underlying economic strength
coming into this thing. Um the second I
would say we've really lost the plot on
credit. Um we're talking the headlines
and the conversations are about this
little narrow of area of direct lending
200 billion of the non-traded BDC's.
And why are we here in the first place?
The reality is the last 15 years credit
has compounded great returns for
investors around the globe. and they've
done it in a manner which outbeats or
beats the high yield and loan indexes
dramatically. And so we're talking about
a little bit of skirmish on the
sidelines here. So, you know, no doubt
uh a big macro crossroads in terms of
the timing of this and the impact of
crude uh and what that's going to do on
consumer confidence and unemployment.
But uh I think we missed the plot on two
big issues. And I suspect if I'm sitting
here in 3 to 6 months, we'll be talking
about a much much different backdrop.
And we talking about more about the M&A
calendar, the IG calendar, the strength
of the overall capex cycle than we are
what's going on in the Middle East.
>> Well, let's talk about what you called a
skirmish in private credit. Let's get to
that. So, Apollo Debt Solutions cap
redemptions at 5%. Yeah. Understand that
clients sought to redeem about 11.2%.
>> When you get those kind of redemptions,
how does it work internally? How do you
decide what you're going to cap? What do
you do? It's pretty easy when you when
we created the the the whole theme of
these vehicles were to give global
wealth investors an opportunity to be in
a robust asset class with incremental
yield over the last decade or so.
Institutions have clamored to get into
it as they took their equity risk down.
And so when these products were created,
they were created with the premise of
you get higher returns, robust
compounding yield, but we are going to
protect the vehicle from the run on the
bank mentality and the that type of of
activity. And so on page one in black
and white, it talks about a 5%
redemption structure of the portfolio to
protect all the investors, not just the
5% but the 95% that are staying. So for
us it's a very easy conversation. The
document said 5%. We told folks 5%.
We're giving 5%. And so the idea that
this is this this term of a gate or
redemption penalty, this is common
structure and common practice. So we're
not doing anything punitive. We're doing
what's right as a fiduciary. So it's
actually a quite easy conversation.
>> Is it making it more difficult though to
raise money to raise new money for new
funds? You know, I think when you when
you sit back and you see the headlines
of the concerns and consternation of
where we are in the credit cycle,
investors will say, is this does this
make sense for my portfolio? And yes,
subscriptions of new capital have come
down from the pace that they were last
year. But as John mentioned, the first
quarter we had as much money coming in
as wanted to redeem. So, we were in that
fortunate spot. Um, because of the
nature of how we've run the portfolio.
Um, a BDC structures like a hedge fund
or like a mutual fund. It's just a
structure. Then all the choices are how
you invest it, how you structure it.
We've been pretty consistent, low
leverage, all 100% senior secured, no
pick. So, no doubt I think investors are
going to be a little bit more cautious
about how they asset allocate. But I
really go back to this first comment.
the last 15 years since ' 09 credit
depending on where you've been in
private direct lending probably a nine
nine and a half percent return versus
being in the public safe high yield at
around 6 and a half. That compounding
has made a tremendous amount of
difference. It's worked for
institutional investors around the
globe. They want to put more capital in.
So if it didn't work, those investors
wouldn't be asking for it. We have seen
that though over a period of time where
we haven't seen a true credit cycle. And
we've seen that over a period where we
haven't seen the same kind of buildout
of private credit the way that we have.
And we've seen that during an era of
prosperity for the Middle East which has
pumped money into this industry. And now
a lot of nations have to use that money
to go into infrastructure and protecting
themselves and and and propping up their
economies. How much does that
potentially challenge the credit cycle
and challenge the industry from a
cyclical perspective? not necessarily
just these oneoff issues in BDC's.
>> I I think you're you're pulling at the
thread of the secular backdrop of
credit. When I got to Apollo 20 years
ago, investors would had a very easy
choice. They invested in equities or
they invested in private equity and they
did other things around the edges, but
really for credit it was high yield or
distressed. It was a very binary
decision, yes or no. The last 15 years
around the globe, as the globe has
gotten older, more and more folks are
hitting retirement age, the need for
income, the need for yield and taking
that equity risk down is a broader
secular theme literally around the
globe. And no doubt the big sovereigns
in the Middle East have been big players
in a lot of these activities. And
certainly if when this when this uh
conflict ends they're going to need to
focus on the capbacks at home in Saudi
in the UAE in Qatar etc. But I don't
think that's going to that might have
some marginal impact but and and to your
other point it has been other than the
COVID period we really have not had an
economic slowdown in the US since '09.
That would be the longest cycle post
World War II that we've ever had almost
17 years. I'll remind you, I was in
Australia last week. They haven't had an
economic cycle since '92. So, the
reality is the way the world has uh, you
know, grown, globalization, interactive
trade around the globe, it's made it
it's made economic cycles much, much
longer, much more durable, and it's made
recessions harder to come by. But I will
add in the last 17 years you had a huge
issue on uh energy in terms of the shale
crisis, a lot of credit losses there.
You had a lot of losses in farmer
rollup. You had the crypto bubble cris.
So you've had a lot of sector issues,
but the underlying strength again when
you look at the the the breadth of this
capback cycle, the M&A cycle, the IG
cycle, um I I think there's some really
really strong secular tailwinds that
again I think this is a moment in time,
this conflict. I think as I sit here in
September and October, this will be in
the rearview mirror. I don't I'm sure
oil prices will be a little bit lower at
that point in time and I think the year
ends up in a much stronger spot than we
are right now. It's pretty challenging
right now. I would encourage all three
of you to go for a walk this afternoon.
It's springtime in New York.
>> Are do you not do you not need to
rethink some of your strategic
partnerships in the UAE? You're dealing
with a lot of real estate companies.
You're dealing with Mubala
sovereign wealth fund.
>> Yes, we do. Because I think their their
needs are going to change. they're going
to need to focus on the domestic capex
and domestic FDI. We've we've actually
been a fairly large player uh in FDI in
the UAE and in other spots in that
region. So, we're going to continue
that. There's a tremendous amount of
whether it's airports, infrastructure,
AI data centers that they're going to
need foreign capital too. Um so, yes, I
mean certainly when we think about our
investment grade solutions toolbox, we
want to take that to that part of the
globe. Um, but I I I've seen nothing out
of uh their actions over the last six,
eight weeks that have taken them off
their uh their their broader uh uh
investment uh objectives.
>> Can we finish on inflation?
>> Sure.
>> If you're so bullish on growth right
now, so constructive at the moment, do
you think people are underplaying the
risk that we see
>> I've been consistent. I've been
consistent in that. I said that last
time I was on the show.
>> And now we've got an energy shock. When
when's the last time you bought you you
bought something that was cheaper three
to six months ago than than you bought
it today? I mean, very
>> a long time.
>> So, I I think that any conversation of
the Fed uh lowering rates in the short
term, I think that's dissipated for the
right reasons. I think inflation and
stagflation is a little bit of the
concern. Uh but I'm definitely much more
focused on uh either either backend
inflation or a steeper curve when I
think about risk uh analysis across the
portfolio.
>> Jim, you're going to stick with us.
Don't go anywhere. Sure. Don't go for a
walk. Jim Zelter of Apollo Global
Management. I might go for a walk.
>> I was going to say it's beautiful,
doesn't it? My day with a walk.
>> All I can say is please I actually like
his advice and frankly I could use a
walk. So maybe
>> cherry blossoms. You know come through
taking little little perspective. Take a
step back. Look at the big picture.
>> Try, Jim. I always try. You know that.
>> Thank you very much. He's going to stick
with us. I can't work out if this is an
endorsement of this program or not.
>> Well, I think he's saying that we're
being a little histrionic when it comes
to how dramatic we feel the moment is
and how potentially bad it could get.
And I think that our job is to work
through the parameters and the
parameters could get pretty negative.
And Jim is saying there's a lot of
positivity on the other side. Go take a
walk. And I haven't
>> You ever met Jeff Curry over at Carlo?
>> Yes. And and and you guys shouldn't
speak.
>> I I've been I've been doing this for 41
years. You you don't get to my spot uh
in in business by being naive. I'm not
naive. I'm I'm very cognizant of the
day-to-day issues that we're confronting
with the situation this administration's
in, the gravity of the war, the concerns
what's going on in Paris. These are, you
know, these are some devastating issues.
I'm not denying any of those, but I
really think again I I'm using a little
bit of the page of the SVB book. We were
all convinced after SVB that a massive
credit tightening was going to happen in
the economy and we missed it. And the
strength of this economy, the strength
of the consumer, the capback cycle, M&A,
those are very powerful drivers.
>> We appreciate the constructive outlook.
More from Jim in just a moment. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Yhira has
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. In a prime time address,
President Trump saying the US is very
close to completing its military
objectives in Iran and vowing to hit the
nation quote extremely hard over the
next two to three weeks. Still, the
speech lacked new announcements and most
notably a precise timeline for an exit.
President Trump also saying in the
address other countries need to take the
lead on reopening the streets of Hormuz.
The president saying the US does not
need the oil exported through the
critical waterway and that the nations
who depend on it should quote go in and
take it. And the headquarters of Goldman
Sachs in Paris was placed under police
surveillance last night following bomb
threats believed to be from an Iranian
group. The threats come just days after
a bombing attempt was foiled near the
Bank of America in the French capital
city telling its Paris and Frankfurt's
employees to work remotely as a
precaution. Mr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. They are concerning
headlines. We'll keep track of that
story for you throughout this morning.
Up next on the program, turning up the
pressure on Iran.
>> We are on track to complete all of
America's military objectives shortly.
Very shortly, we are going to hit them
extremely hard over the next two to
three weeks. When this conflict is over,
the strait will open up naturally.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall. We'll have more from Jim
Zelter. Bremo's going to talk to him in
the commercial break. By the time that's
finished, he'll come back a different
man from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
I can tell you it didn't work. In case
you were wondering, he's more fired up
time. I tried. No, he's more fired up.
He's more fired up. You've got some
concerns.
>> Yes, I have some concerns. I'm an
investor in the world. I have a lot of
concerns.
>> It's not about the little narrow It's
not about the little narrow corner of
the world that you guys call private
credit. It's it's it's much broader. But
>> same round out this morning.
>> Pardon?
>> Have you been annoyed by the coverage in
the last few months?
>> No, I'm not annoyed by it. I I think I
it reminds me of when I was a young high
yield trader in the early '9s and um
when 1990 when Drexel went when went
filed and there was concerns about the
high yield asset class junk bonds you
know asset class won't survive it's a
Ponzi scheme there's no credibility here
and I think that if I look back at that
time it was early uh days of the high
yield market which is now the high yield
market in a legitimate asset class I
think this is just growing s and as I go
back to my first principles if investors
over 15 years were not actually making
money and I see the the demographics of
the globe right now where investors need
robust compounding yield I'd be
concerned but I I I see the great
benefit of this product
>> I've sensed frustration I've sense
frustration from the asset managers you
have too I can feel it now I've got to
be honest with you I can I can sense the
frustration that you've got I think with
some of the coverage over the past few
months what is it about the coverage
that's been quite quite upsetting the
fixation on just BDC's and not the
broader asset class. What is it about
that's upset you and a team maybe?
>> Well, I I I I I got to push back on
being upset like I I
>> Well, I can tell you over the last few
minutes is felt that way. Okay.
>> Maybe not aimed directly at us, but
certainly the coverage of your world.
>> Well, I again I I think that a lot
because of the proliferation of the
analysis in every corner of the
environment we work in right now. I
think that's why I had my message about
taking a step back. Um, you know, I do
think when you look at the growth of the
US economy since ' 09, the result has
been we have the most robust banking
system in the world. We have the leading
banks that are well-run organizations
that have done an amazing job and the
return on equity and their impact in the
US economy is profound. You also have a
backdrop of economic growth that is
unmatched around the globe. And I don't
think it's any surprise that the advent
of pushing out the risk in the banking
system, the benefit of securization, the
benefit of CLOS, the benefit of all the
things that institutions have helped out
with that has result in a much broader
deeper base financing environment. We
financed a lot of growth. We financed
amazing tech growth. Our VC marketplace
is the most robust in the world. And so
I think that you know many mutual funds
today, I'll give you a little analysis.
Many mutual funds today were very very
thought for forward thinking and uh were
able to buy SpaceX several years ago and
so SpaceX is part of their portfolio. a
small portion.
There's probably not a clearly defined
marking process on how they all mark
their SpaceX SpaceX equity because of
employee sales, whether it's monthly,
quarterly, whatever it is. But just
because the marking process may be
inconsistent, that shouldn't stop them
from buying a great American company
that they're going to do very, very well
on. And so that's why I think we're sort
of missing the plot about I've talked on
this show in the past about uh Birkshire
Hathaway about a half of their portfolio
being in private companies. And so I do
think the whole idea of the public
private convergence the broader
portfolio approach where the where the
market's going in terms of these massive
capex that's where I think we've we've
sort of lost the plot a little bit. And
again I'm not in the newspaper business.
Um, but I I do think that I know what
sells headlines and I think this the
methodical robust growth of the US
economy, the role of the public private
convergence, the strength and breadth of
our financing, that's really the bigger
story here.
>> And clearly there are people who want to
uh belittle or demean this industry
because they feel like either they've
been left behind or they want to
suppress prices so they can get in and
buy. And I just wonder from your
perspective, are you seeing this as an
opportunity to get more aggressive
considering that there have been some
discounted assets? there are some weaker
hands and a lot of people are worried
including myself.
>> Well, unfortunately the the
I would say two things. Um in my 41
years in the industry in the 20 years at
Apollo whenever there's been any kind of
dislocation we've been fortunate enough
between the breadth and the discipline
and the capital we have to end up in a
better spot. That's number one. The the
the second is I would say is the
headlines have been much more profound
and loud than the activity. There really
isn't a lot of assets that are for sale
that have widened out dramatically. The
the the the high-grade indexes is where
it's been. The high yield index has
really been pretty tight. There's been a
variety of financings done. Look what JP
Morgan did on EA Sports. They did a
massive uh IG crossover financing. Uh
the high yolan loan markets have been
pretty strong. So there's been a great
excitement about putting this massive
amount of capital to work. That's the
business we're in. We really have not
seen the uh vast majority of of assets
coming to marketplace that people have
talked about. So you know we're we're we
have a lot of liquidity. We got 125
billion of capital and liquidity ready
to put in the market in our platform.
But I'm sure we'll be active and I'll
talk about it in the on the several
times I'm back here the rest of the
year.
>> Final question. Yes, sir.
>> Texas or Florida?
>> You know, we we want to uh we love New
York. New York has been our home for a
long time, and we're going to maintain a
massive presence in New York.
>> Still loved by New York.
>> You know, new New York is a very dynamic
place that will always attract a lot of
best and the brightest of young folks,
but we want to make sure as we think
about our company between New York, De
Moine, Elsagundo, we want to make sure
we have a spot to create growth and
innovation. And we'll see what the
process leads us to. Let's go for a walk
together. Sounds great. We'll do that in
a moment. Jim Zelter, good to see you,
sir. I believe it. Thank you, Jim Zelter
of Apollo Global Management. Jim, this
was fun. We appreciate your time.
>> Always appreciate it.
>> Thank you very much. A stand defense of
his asset class. No doubt expected by
many.
>> Well, and and saying that really you
haven't seen the actual pain in terms of
fire sales or any kind of assets on on
the market. The broader takeaway to me
is the economy is going to be in a
robust place in October, September, come
uh when this is in the rearview mirror.
And it speaks to some of the upside
surprise that we've seen in economic
growth. Also speaks to the reason why
some people are worried about inflation.
>> Do you remember a long time ago if you
got the tap on the shoulder and you
would ask to move outside of the New
York office to somewhere else, it felt
like a punishment and now it feels like
a reward. Can you imagine the line as
some of these financial institutions to
get on board, jump ship and go somewhere
else?
>> Well, and that is part of the reason why
they're moving to other places and why
you're seeing those locations
>> walks in Miami,
>> right? You know,
>> much better. at least
>> run out of time, but I do wonder how
many people knocked the door and said,
"You know what, Jim, I fancy some of
that."
>> I would like
>> I'll see you down in Florida.
>> I would like to hear the New York
response. Yes. You know, what what does
New York City have to say to that?
>> Coming up on the program, Mike Pal of
Black Rockck lowering his outlook for US
equities. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. Higher fuel prices weighing on
airline stocks this morning. Stocks down
across the board. New session lows on
the S&P were negative by 1.5% on the S&P
500. From New York City, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Let's sit on this price action just for
a beat. Equities down across the board
on the S&P 500. We're down by 1.5% on
the S&P. Jim Zout has taken a walk.
That's why he's so chill.
>> I mean, he gets a chance to take a walk
in fairness. He listens. He's never
coming back.
>> Don't listen, Jim. The NASDAQ's down 2%.
In the bond market, twos, 1030s look
like this. He's a good sport. Yields are
up by five basis points on 10. 437. Twos
up by 5. 385 encouraged by this move
here in crude. WTI Brent advancing this
morning. Brent crude just short of 110
now. 10955 and up by more than 8%. The
president's address for many of you
falling short. Didn't have new
information. And I keep going back to
the two key issues for this market right
now. End the hostilities, get the energy
moving. And there's nothing that we've
heard in the last 24 hours that suggests
that one or the other is going to happen
anytime soon.
>> People were expecting this to be uh some
sort of explanation of how the US was
going to extricates itself from Iran
based on some of the recent uh posts
that we've seen on truth social.
Instead, it was preparing the American
people for a greater escalation, which
is a reason why you're seeing a response
this morning. Again, how many days do we
have to come in and say, "Well,
everything's changed now that there's a
new post or there's a new comment." And
that is sort of a question. At what
point do we reach the place where there
are sort of diminishing returns for some
of these macro headlines that keep
whipssawing everything?
>> When it comes to the straight of her
moose, the president gave no indication
that the US government is going to be
the ones to reopen it via militarily.
And then we hear from Emanuel Mron of
France saying it would be quote
unrealistic to try to open it through
military means. And they say we need to
cooperate with the Iranians who right
now the United States is having strikes
on. The next phase for all of this is
the data, the economic data and the
earnings, the guidance coming from
corporate America and elsewhere. We've
got more economic data for you now. Mike
McKe has more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, it is sort of
guidance. The challenger job cuts
numbers are just out. Now, these don't
all happen, but they do give us an
indication of what the corporate offices
are thinking. And we see 60,620
job cuts announced in the month of
March. Now, that is down 78% from the
same month a year ago. However, if you
look industry by industry, technology
getting whacked. Uh 18,720
jobs announced to to be cut in March. A
total of 52,050
for the year so far. The next uh biggest
is pharmaceutical and that's only 6,348
for the year so far. Manufacturing jobs
continue to go away. But if you want a
job that doesn't seem to be threatened
at the moment, become a lawyer. Uh the
legal industry, no job cuts in March,
none announced year to date, which is
kind of interesting because everybody
says AI is going to get rid of a lot of
people in the legal industry. Seems to
be doing much more to those who are
creating AI than to those who are going
to be using it.
>> Mike is always the way. When things
start to get bad, they make money. Mike
McKe, thank you, sir. The latest on the
jobs data. more tomorrow morning at 8:30
Eastern time with the payrolls report.
ADP was decent, retail sales were
decent, ISM the headline was decent. You
noted prices paid. That might be of more
of a concern in the months to come if
that holds.
>> Yeah, the idea that you see prices paid
increasing to the highest pace since
2022. I just find it interesting that
this highlights how uh companies are
shifting budgets toward AI investments
at the expense of jobs. That's according
to the head of the uh challenger jobs
cuts announcements. And again, this is
the existential risk behind all of this.
We're leveraged and I bet tied to
artificial intelligence that will prop
us up through any kind of potential
shock. At what point do we see that
percolating into other issues that
affect the economy? And this is the
reason why people get negative. They
start to like put all these things
together and
>> question your own negativity.
>> Well, I don't want to question my own
negativity. I never want to question
that. But I do think that Jim Zelter is
on to something when you actually look
at the upside surprises in a lot of the
economic data that we've gotten.
>> Data is good. Capital markets have been
wide open. From Jim's seat, I see the
same thing. That makes a lot of sense.
If you're in a political seat right now,
I'd be far more concerned. Gasoline
prices, $4 a gallon, the trends you're
talking about in the labor market. Try
getting elected on those kind of trends,
which that doesn't look good for me
going into the midterms.
>> I'm more worried about the sovereign
debt market, frankly, because given the
fact that everyone's going to be trying
to prop up a lot of the uh incomes of
individuals both in the United States
and elsewhere, how much is that the real
issue? Uh more fiscal spending and what
that does to the yield curve. And when
it comes to trying to get elected, if
you look at the latest Reuters Ipsos
poll this week, two-thirds of Americans
want a quick end to the Iran war. We did
not get that last night from the
president.
>> Okay, you ready? You feel more
comfortable now? Good. Feel comfortable
in your negativity.
>> Walk. No, I mean, too.
>> That's a contradiction.
>> He's in a different seat to us. He gets
to go for a walk.
>> I mean, being comfortable in your own
negativity, like permanent uncomfort.
>> All right, let's move on. On a radar
this morning, the president indicating
the war in Iran is nearing completion.
We are going to finish the job and we're
going to finish it very fast. We're
getting very close. I want to thank our
allies in the Middle East, Israel, Saudi
Arabia, Qatar, the UAE, Kuwait, and
Bahrain. They've been great, and we will
not let them get hurt or fail in any
way, shape, or form.
>> The president later pledging more
aggressive action in the coming weeks,
including potential strikes on Iran's
electrical plants.
If there is no deal, we are going to hit
each and every one of their electric
generating plants very hard and probably
simultaneously.
We have not hit their oil, even though
that's the easiest target of all, but we
could hit it and it would be gone and
there's not a thing they could do about
it.
>> Some of those comments from the
president sending equity futures lower
and crude prices much higher. And
finally, a concerning story developing.
the Goldman Sachs headquarters in Paris
receiving bomb threats overnight. This
just days after a Ford bombing attempt
near the Bank of America office in the
French capital city telling employees in
Paris and Frankfurt to work remotely as
a precaution.
>> Hugely concerning. Uh the reports say
that this is tied to a threat coming
from Iranianbacked groups or groups that
are pro Iran. Again, this is not just an
isolated story to the Middle East to a
specific region. This is the new type of
warfare and it is warfare with a nation
that is engaged in a lot of cells around
the world to engage in terrorist acts.
So definitely something that's hugely
concerning and we'll keep monitoring it.
>> And Europe is obviously bracing for
this. The Paris police saying they're
tightened security around US banks. You
have bank CEOs saying just don't go to
work. How long is this going to last?
It's a serious concern.
>> We'll keep tracking those headlines as
they come in. Yara is going to stay on
top of that story for you. Let's stay on
our top story this morning for financial
markets worldwide. The president's
address on the war in Iran, weighing on
risk appetite and whipsaring financial
markets. Mike Pal of Black Rockck
writing, "We think the shock in energy
is not fully reflected. We're
recommending dialing back risk in global
equities. We've trimmed our overweights
to the US and Japan to neutral." Mike
joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> Let's talk about why you believe it's
not well priced. What is the risk that
you don't think is sufficiently priced
at the moment? Yeah, I mean I think as
you were talking about in the leadin
that duration of disruption to global
energy energy supplies is the core
question and it and it looks as if it's
going to continue to cascade for some
number of weeks if not months uh from
here. Uh that uh is a a core risk to the
global economy and one that I think has
caused our portfolio managers to be
dialing back risk uh just more to that
that neutral position.
>> You're tracking how the dominoes fall.
just describe how that will cascade in
the weeks to come. Now, the president's
essentially told us and we can go with
this as a baseline assumption this will
continue at least two to three weeks.
>> Yeah, I mean I'd say maybe a couple of
things. One, you know, when it comes to
um the geopolitics, when it comes to
when energy is going to be restarted,
I've got my eyes on two things now
coming out of the president's remarks.
one that miday date when the she summit
has been scheduled May 14th May 15 I
don't think they're going to want to
reschedule that again uh that's
obviously very important to uh the
president to US China relations I think
as I look out there that looks to be
something of a backs stop uh for uh the
length of of hostilities here secondly
you know the UK foreign secretaries uh
convening 35 countries in London today I
think a broader set of countries around
political diplomatic military steps are
going to be a part of a solution to the
straight of horror moves and I think
that those discussions are happening is
important. So those are two things in
light of the president's remarks I've
got my eyes on. You know I think to your
question you know this is already now
been going on four to five weeks. It's
going to take weeks if not months to
restart and we've got cascading issues
uh as a result. You know I think what am
I looking at? I'm looking at not just
the headline prices of crude. I'm
looking at a lot of those spreads to the
refined products to things like diesel
to things like jet fuel to things like
Napa where we're really seeing signs of
physical supply disruption demand
destruction especially in Asia and I
think beginning to extend to Europe and
I think those are the places where we're
really going to see some of that u that
that that supply disruption manifesting
itself in economic slowdown. You're
talking about going to neutral for both
Europe and the United States, even
though a lot of people have come on the
show and said Europe will be much harder
hit as you were just talking about as
well as Southeast Asia. What's the
transmission mechanism for the United
States that given all of the growth that
Jim Zelter is talking about, you think
potentially sty expectations even
further from here?
>> Yeah, I so I I I divide that into kind
of two parts. You know, one, you know, I
think on the real economic side, you
know, certainly the US has and is going
to have its exposures. This is a global
supply shock, but the US is coming into
this from a relatively strong economic
position as Jim was talking to and is
relatively more resilient to energy
shocks globally. Was talking to Amarie
before we came on air. If you look at
the natural gas price in the United
States, an important input to
electricity, an important input to
industrial production in the United
States that basically hasn't moved uh
since the start of the Iran war, very
different than what we saw in 2022. On
the flip side, I think there are a set
of financial linkages from the United
States to the rest of the world. You
know, that that could be stressed. You
know, there are going to be a lot of
countries whether in the Gulf and Europe
and Asia that are having to take
resources and invest them at home around
their own resilience, around their own
defense. Those are financial flows that
are an important uplift historically for
US equities, for US assets. And I think
some of those financial linkages could
be a headwind as we look ahead.
>> Is this a reason why you potentially
yields could go even higher in the US?
We're talking about equities and Middle
East investments in the United States
equity market, but what about the fixed
income market given how much they've
been also investing there?
>> Yeah. So, so I think, you know, we um
look at the long end of government bond
curves. That isn't just in the United
States. I think it's across developed
markets in general and see, you know,
risks to the upside. Obviously, all of
these are are markets that came into
this conflict with question marks over
fiscal, the need to invest. those
question marks, those needs to invest
even greater now. And so I think
particularly at that that long end, that
10 to 30year part of those curves, we
see we see risk in the United States,
but risk across the developed markets
more broadly.
>> Well, we see structural changes. You
brought up something like NAFTA. The
United States right now is exporting the
most on record, 15 million barrels of
NAFTA last month. That's pretty
incredible for the US. Does that stay?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I I think that um
that this is a moment that is going to
be a a pivot point just as the 2022
invasion was just as co was for uh
supply chains globally. And I think one
thing that uh gets talked about a lot
but I think can't be underscored enough
is you know the benefits of building
resilience through stockpiling. I think
that one of the ways in which we're
going to see increased spending,
increased investment from a range of
countries around the world is building
these stockpiles around critical inputs
like on energy, like on raw materials.
Uh and you know, NAPA is just one
example where I would expect to see
ongoing demand because countries are
going to companies are going to want to
build those those resilient stock piles
in the face of the likelihood of ongoing
shock. is something a theme we've heard
repeatedly over the last month that's
going to keep prices elevated even after
these hostilities end and conclude
>> and it's not just in oil prices it's not
just in gas prices but aluminum in
nickel in copper and that's what you see
around some of the pricing and the
volatility there how you get a handle on
that what that means for inflation
longer term again that's the reason why
people are looking at the fiscal budget
as well as potentially the price inputs
for consumers
>> Mike thoughtful it always is good to see
you a year since liberation day where's
12 months gone it's crazy isn't it
>> flies by
>> one year on from Liberation Day. Mike
Par there of Black Rockck. 12 months
later, we're sitting here trying to work
out what the impact of that day is going
to be. Still still trying to figure
things out.
>> Well, when it comes to tariffs, yeah,
because the Supreme Court struck down
AIPA. The administration is working out
exactly what the tariff rates are going
to be. I just spoke to Jameson Greer
about this. They're still working out
what the tariff rate is going to be on
China. They're trying to get back to
that 20%. Can they? We'll see.
>> That meeting between she and the
president circled on, I think most
people's candidates going into the month
of May. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahhira has more. Hey
Yhira.
>> Hi John. Great Britain will host talks
aimed at forming a coalition of
countries to explore ways to reopen the
streets of Hormuse. The virtual meeting
will include at least 30 countries
including France, Germany, Italy,
Canada, and the UAE. The US is not
expected to attend.
The headquarters of Goldman Sachs in
Paris was placed under police
surveillance last night following bomb
threats believed to be from an Iranian
group. The threats come just days after
a bombing attempt was foiled near the
office of Bank of America in the French
capital city telling its Paris and
Frankfurt employees to work remotely as
a precaution. And the Wall Street
Journal reporting that Maine is poised
to freeze large data center construction
until November 2027. The bill calls for
the pause so the states can assess the
impact of data center development on the
environment and electricity grid. Dr.
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Update on the market session
lows. We're down here by 1.6% on the S&P
500. Up next on the program, a crude
awakening.
>> Many Americans have been concerned to
see the recent rise in gasoline prices
here at home. Our economy is strong and
improving by the day and it will soon be
roaring back like never before. It will
top the levels that it was a month ago.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Cladio Eric
Gozen of Bank of America securities.
He's live from New York City. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
and let's get you up to speed on the
price action this morning. Equities
declining. Decent two-day bounce. The
biggest two-day run we've seen on the
S&P since May of last year. We take
almost all of it back this morning.
We're down by 1.6% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by 2 percentage
points. on the Russell. A similar move
in the bond market. Yields pushing
higher. It's that toxic brew as Brema
would call it. Stocks are lower, bonds
are lower, yields are higher by five
basis points, 10's up to 437. And the
epicenter of all the price action is
this right here. The story hasn't really
moved on. Bring crude at 109 up by 8%.
And the fact the story hasn't moved on
is part of the problem.
>> Yeah, you can't really discount the idea
of higher oil prices. When I look at the
price action every single day, I wonder,
do traders come in and they're like, "Oh
no, we got to sell." or oh no, I got to
buy. Or is this just algorithmic trading
and programmed trading that's trying to
pick up all these headlines, interpret
them and inject, you know, oil prices
up, bad, risk on or risk off, you know,
oil prices is down, good, risk. Like, I
mean, at what point are we just trying
to put a narrative to what ultimately is
just computers?
>> Well, the administration is trying to
put a little bit of a cap at least
through verbal intervention on the paper
market. The issue is everyone's waking
up to the physical market and the fact
that the straight of moose is still
closed 5 weeks in is a huge problem. And
right now the president didn't offer any
options besides it naturally opening up
or other countries that use it opening
up which Emanuel Macron to that today
says that's unrealistic and it has to be
done through consultation with Tyrron.
>> No sign that external partners have the
ability to open it up right now and if
they did no real sign from the president
right now that they've got the
willingness to do that at least for the
moment and things can change because
guidance has gone back and forth over
the last few weeks for markets. Your
base case now is this endures. It's
prolonged. It goes another 2 to 3 weeks.
And the longer the stratopforms is
compromised, the more the problems
accumul accumulate. And I think we're
already past the point of this being a
short-term shock. And that's what I get
from the commodity pros at the moment
reading the research on the southside is
this is already a medium-term issue
because of the damage done to production
across the region,
>> which is the reason we're all looking at
the economic data. How much momentum do
we have going in to withstand the
potential shock that clearly is going to
be a little bit more significant than a
lot of people thought.
>> On a Sylvanas this morning, a crude
awakening.
>> Many Americans have been concerned to
see the recent rise in gasoline prices
here at home. In one year, we've taken a
dead and crippled country and made it
the hottest country anywhere in the
world with no inflation. Our economy is
strong and improving by the day and it
will soon be roaring back like never
before. It will top the levels that it
was a month ago.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Oil
prices surging as President Donald Trump
vows to increase attacks on Iran.
Claudia Irrigosan of Bank of America
securities writing, "We now assume the
war ends before the end of April with
oil prices around 100 a barrel for the
rest of the year." Claudia joins us now
for more. Claudia, good morning. That's
quite a headline because that's not
priced into the oil curve right now.
When you present that to clients, what
kind of push back do you get?
>> Uh well, there is so much uncertainty
that uh people understand that that can
be one of the scenarios. I think what
the market is um not paying enough
attention is the persistence of the
shock even if the war ends in three or
four weeks because you're going to need
a lot of time to normalize the flows in
the strait. It's not just about the war
is over. It's about normalizing the
flows in the straight and also you're
going to need three four months to
normalize production. So that creates a
lot of persistence and obviously a
higher floor for energy prices versus
pre-war. And that's the part I think the
market is not uh pricing in totally.
>> So let's run with that baseline
assumption 100 for the rest of the year.
Y
>> let's go with that. What does that mean
for your expectations for growth and for
inflation? Well, the short answer is uh
lower growth, higher inflation. The
question is how much lower, how much
higher uh which countries are going to
suffer more? Um we are thinking at the
global level uh we strugg
and a half to 3.1. Uh inflation is going
to go up at the global level 90 basis
points. um in the headline inflation uh
for you to have a sense in the US we
expect um 40 to 50 basis points
depending on where you're talking about
four quarter versus four quarter or
average growth uh 40 to 50 basis point I
would say 30 basis point it's because of
the oil shock in growth so reduction in
growth 30 basis point because of the war
and inflation headline should go up in
the US headline PCE 70 basis points and
core or 30 basis points. But if you
compare that shock uh the same shock in
Europe where obviously LG is also very
important uh growth will go down around
60 basis uh yeah 60 basis points and
inflation 160 basis point higher.
>> Have we already reached the point where
certain parts of the world that
previously were going to have positive
growth are now headed for recession?
I think for that war is probably too
early uh to use it. Um I think we need
some worsening of the price action. Um
if you if you think about for instance
the US and the type of growth that you
have that last year was uh driven by
investment AI mostly uh and the K-shap
type of consumption where higher and
middle income brackets are the ones that
are pushing uh aggregate growth. If you
have a correction in asset prices that
through consumer confidence can affect
uh aggregate consumption much more. But
if in order to have that you need to
have probably higher oil prices and and
and and the the prospects that oil
prices will remain about say 120 for a
while. The market has been pretty
resilient.
>> How important is tomorrow's jobs report
to you? At what point does the sort of
typical economic data matter again
versus say just the company reports that
come out during earnings?
>> So I mean this report is obviously dated
because it it's information pre-war. It
gives you a flavor of where the economy
was before the war. Um this type of
shocks stackflationary shocks shows up
first in inflation and then in economic
activity. Um uh so you're going to see
it in employment maybe in the next two
to three year reports. We need to wait,
but the inflation numbers you're going
to see pretty quickly.
>> Do you think that will shape the
sequencing that you just described? Do
you think that's going to shape
communication from the central bank as
well that they start out by trying to
anchor inflation expectations knowing
that at some point down the line they've
got to respond to growth?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And and over
time you're going to have either good
news about the world or bad news about
the world, right? So it's it's a moving
target to some extent but for instance
at this point we have the Fed not doing
anything for a while but we have the ECB
hiking uh in in June and July.
>> Wow.
>> All right. So it's a very different type
of uh dynamic and very different type of
management of inflation expectations.
>> Got 30 seconds left. Do you consider
that a policy mistake if they hike
twice?
>> Not necessarily. I think there is so
much uncertainty uh that it's it's too
early to tell that this is a policy
mistake. Um we're talking about June and
July uh we are beginning of April. This
this is equivalent in normal times of
three years basically a lot of things
will happen between now and then.
>> Claudia, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Appreciate your time. My
pleasure.
>> Cla irration there of Bank of America
Securities looking for on average $100 a
barrel for the remainder of the year.
>> Yeah. And the idea that that increases
headline CPI around the world by 90
basis points by almost a full percentage
point as a response gives you a sense of
how this is increasingly very much an
inflationary story.
>> Coming up on the program in the next
hour, we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods, Rkaya Ibrahim of
BCA Research, Alejandra Grindle of Ned
Davis Research, and Osen Qua of Wells
Fargo. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance is just around the corner.
We're sort of signaling caution here. We
have not added to equities.
>> We want to be positioned for a rebound.
>> The US is the best house in a bad equity
neighborhood. The market as a whole
probably still has some mean reversion.
>> We've got a bullish and bearish
tug-of-war going on here.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. The
losses resume declining across the board
on the S&P 500 negative by 1.6% 6% down
by two on the NASDAQ in the bond market.
Bonds down two, yields higher. Twos, 10,
30s, yields up by four basis points,
436.
And the epicenter of all of this, guess
where it is? It's right here. Brent
crude and WTI advancing. Brent crude 109
higher by 8% so far this morning.
>> The why here is actually really
important. Last night, we got a speech
from President Trump where essentially
he was preparing the American people for
an escalation to deescalate. This wasn't
a discussion about getting out or how
quickly the US is going to remove itself
from the region. It was talking about
how they are going to uh insert a lot of
pain on Iran in order to reopen the
strait and get some concessions. A real
question about how long this goes on
for, whether people are sufficiently
prepared and how big of a shock this is
to an economy that had been pretty
resilient going in. The market was
hoping and looking for an off-ramp and
said they got a ramp up from the
president of the United States and no
indication that a straight of her moose
will be opened anytime soon. The
president said countries that rely on
it, they need to go do that themselves
or it'll just open up naturally. Mark
Short, who worked for the president in
the first term, had this to say on
social media. If the US isn't going to
secure the trade of her moose, who is?
And the market fully understands that.
>> The next phase, we've talked about it
repeatedly. The economic data, 8:30
Eastern time, jobless claims tomorrow
morning, 8:30 Eastern time, the payrolls
report. And the data so far this week,
better than expected. Yeah, with the
economic surprise index reaching some of
the highest levels going back to late
2023, Clauddio Eric Goan had a really
interesting thing to say and I just want
to pick back up on that and you were
talking about it. The sequencing of this
that we're not going to see the read
through of this shock in the employment
market for a couple of different
readings. We are going to see the shock
show up in prices much more quickly. ISM
manufacturing yesterday we saw the
prices paid component rise to the
highest level going back to 2022. Watch
that data point and the read through to
how people respond to it including as
you mentioned central bankers.
>> Yeah, the sequencing matters. Inflation
first then growth later seems to be the
view from the economists at the moment.
And which central banks respond? In his
view, the Federal Reserve sits it out.
Doesn't cut interest rates for quite a
while. The ECB, they've got two hikes
from the ECB, the European Central Bank
through the summer.
>> Even though people are talking about
this being an even greater hit to growth
than uh simply just an inflationary
shock in places like Europe. Granted,
they've got a single mandate to control
inflation. You ask Clauddio whether that
was going to be some sort of policy
mistake. A lot of people would say they
have made that policy mistake. Please
don't make it again. He said it's too
early to set tell. Nonetheless, the
longer this goes on, the more the
long-term growth shock is going to come
into play, and you're going to start to
wonder what the counter effect of hiking
rates into that type of a scenario is.
Claudia made another really important
point that I think sometimes we forget.
Even if the war ends tomorrow, the
natural flow of oil and vessels through
the straight of Hermoose will not go
back to normal and the Red Sea is
emblematic of that. We are not at normal
flows right now from the Red Sea, from
the Houthies hitting at vessels since
2023.
We are still not back to normal. So I
think you need to really recalibrize
that. We are really never going back to
the old straighter for moves.
>> Stocks sold this morning. We're negative
by 1.6% on the S&P. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Empire
Sax and words with stocks retreating on
intensifying war rhetoric. Alejandra
Gund of Ned Davis Research breaking down
the latest round of jobs data and Osen
Quan of Wells Fargo trimming his
year-end S&P target on increasing risk
from the war with Iran. We begin this
hour with our top story. Equities lower
following back-to-back gains with the
president turning up the pressure on
Iran once again. Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Saxon words writing higher energy prices
pose a real challenge to both earnings
and the consumer but given the multiple
compression in equity markets valuations
are becoming attractive. Sarah joins us
now for more. Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's start with earnings. Is the
outlook for earnings solid or analysts
just really really slow?
>> I think that there is a problem with
earnings that is going to come through
from energy and it looked like if we
were going to get some sort of a change
over the last couple days maybe that
would be okay. I'm starting to think as
the oil back curve starts to move
higher, I don't see how earnings are
going up for 2026. I think that there
has to be some sort of a balance and I
don't know where that balance is yet,
but I think that we are getting a little
over our skis on the earnings.
>> Makes the question if I should be
getting excited about multiple
compression with that in mind.
>> I think um you know it's amazing you
write something a day ago and the next
day it's already different which is why
you know there's a lot of whiplash going
on on the narratives. I think that there
was you could see how much the market
was anticipating some sort of an
off-ramp. It looked like there might be
some sort of discussions that might get
to something. The fact that we're back
in this place a day later tells you that
this is going to be at least for the
next foreseeable whatever future that is
24 to 48 hours you are going to have
more issues. To your point about trying
to get back to normal, I think that
because there was normal in the straight
of Hormuz, it was okay that the Red Sea
wasn't back to normal. I think there's
going to be a huge push to get anything
back as soon as you get it open. But
when that's going to be, we don't know.
The longer that takes, the higher energy
prices are. That's going to feed through
to earnings and people are not going to
like that. So, yes, I think that that
definitely that tempers my enthusiasm
for valuation compression because I
don't think that you're going to get a
solution as quickly as we thought just a
day ago.
>> So, when I hear you talking, I like,
"Oh, yeah. This is the reason why I'm
nervous." And then when I read your
commentary, you see opportunities out
there. I think, what am I thinking
about? I just obviously need to go take
a walk. So, how do you get the
conviction to uh decide to buy given the
level of uncertainty? Have there really
been uh enough sell-offs in specific
sectors or names to justify taking that
risk?
>> I think that that's I think that's sort
of the key and I and I loved um Jim
Zelter on earlier this morning because
he was like, take a step back, look zoom
out because it's also a timing question,
right? Over time, we know that market
problems eventually get resolved. Am I
looking at a 5year window, a two-year
window, a six-month window? In a
six-month window, I can see a lot of
volatility and I would not be as sanguin
on a six-month basis as I would be on a
longer term basis. Is there going to be
more volatility this year? Yes. Do
people are still thinking that we end
the year either higher than we are today
or some sort of flattish to where we
started? That's really going to depend
on the next on the developments over the
next couple of months. And I think that
the you know, a month ago this was let's
see how long it takes. Well, we're into
a period of time now where that
compression and just the traffic jam of
getting through there is going to be a
problem and is going to keep energy
levels high high and that's going to be
hard for growth. I don't see how that
doesn't impact earnings.
>> So, I taking a step back. I took a walk
and I'm thinking well what has
structurally changed if you take a look
at a three to five year horizon and what
a lot of people keep saying is maybe not
the equity story not the AI story but
does the bond market story change given
suddenly the renewed need for fiscal the
renewed need to sort of support from a
debt financing perspective a lot of
social initiatives that are only getting
more current. Well, that turns into a
much longer deeper discussion about what
is the point at which the government can
not keep throwing money at things. And
at some point, you would think that
there is a point at which bonds start to
get higher price because everyone's
worried about the fiscal. Every time I
think that's going to happen, it seems
to back off. So, I don't know what there
what that point is, right? But it's
true. There there should be a point.
Maybe that's why gold is sitting at
$4,500 because people are going at some
point every currency has a problem
because every government is too
indebted. I don't know what that point
is, though. And that point keeps moving.
>> Sir, why do you think the market is so
fixated on Trump's truths and just not
looking at what he's doing? Just this
week again, another US aircraft carrier
and two destroyers were sent again to
the region. The trip troop buildup is
consistent and it's getting higher.
>> You know, I don't know if people think
that that is a strategic move, if that
is an actual move, if that is a scop
move. I don't know. And I think that the
problem with dealing with a situation
like this that's so fluid and everybody
has something to say and everybody has
an agenda. It makes it really difficult
to parse out what's actually going to
happen. It, you know, maybe we could
just be looking threatening. Maybe we're
actually going to go and put boots on
the ground. People said no, then they
said yes, then they said no. I I don't
know what the answer is, but I think
that trying to parse out what's
happening from what people are saying is
increasingly difficult and the market is
is obviously not necessarily buying that
to the extent that it was in the
beginning. So, where do you hide?
>> The term hide is such a tough one
because when you're when you're managing
money, you have to be managing money,
right? But I think this goes back to
where we were sort of positioned into
the beginning of the year, which is
balance sheets, cash flow, all those
things really matter. All of the money
that is being spent by the MAG7 has made
the MAG7 less attractive than it was. I
think that was a place where people
spent a lot of time. There was a lot of
money in there. Some of that's come out
because people are worried about that
spend. There's still a lot of companies
that have good cash flow, decent balance
sheets, and are doing business that will
continue to do it. I think growth is
going to slow. It just makes it more
tricky.
>> Nvidia's done nothing now for months.
Microsoft was down pretty hard in the
month of March. Alphabet down too. Meta
down by double digits. What's going on
with those names?
>> I think the big concern is they're all
spending a lot of money. They're all
spending a lot of money and we're trying
to figure out what the returns on that
money are going to be right now since
they're all running into it. It was fine
for Nvidia for a while. Then people get
worried about it. If you start to see
anybody pull back on capex, that's going
to give that whole sector a scare
because everybody who's spending a lot
of money is now
>> close to that. Do you think we're close
to that moment, that earnings call, that
release?
>> I think we're closer than we were. I
think we're much closer than we were
because you start to see the electricity
issues with data centers, too. Right.
Maine just said no data centers for two
for two years. We want to see what
happens. There is a conflict now between
energy and data centers that there
wasn't before that this is just
exacerbating. I mean, it was there
before, but it wasn't in the headlines
in the same way before. And now you're
starting to see that and I think that
that could that could kick something
like that off and I think that could be
problematic.
>> Is that the reason why people don't see
necessarily big tech being the obvious
leader out of this potential rut that we
see in the equity market?
>> I I think so. But on the other hand, I
will take the counter argument and also
say they are in the best position to
weather this in the end. So even if they
do pull back capex, even if they do even
if people start to get really worried
about that, they're still generating a
lot of cash. They're going to generate a
lot of cash. So to the extent that those
multiples have compressed a little bit
that probably makes that that part more
attractive because you don't know enough
about what's going to happen with some
of the other sectors that are pulled
back like software although I definitely
think that's going to be an and and not
an or for AI
>> back above 110 on Brent just moments ago
that rally now up by 8% on Brent crude
to about 109 back above 110 on WTI I
should say up by 10% on the session so a
serious rally starting to build
>> and we haven't really seen it go
materially in the other direction the
expectation is for escalation before any
kind of deescalation. The growing risk
is there could be additional oil
facilities hit during this escalatory
period.
>> I know that there are different
contracts and WTI is looking at May and
you pointed out that Brent is at June,
but at this moment that contract for WTI
that you're showing on your Bloomberg
screen is higher than Brent right now.
And you have gasoline prices in America
north of $4 a gallon. Potentially, this
continues as the president outlined last
night. You were going to see closer to
five as we go to peak driving season in
the United States. TI right now 110.
We're higher by 10 percentage points on
the session so far. Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Sax and Woods. Sarah, good to see you as
always. Thanks for dropping by. Let's
give an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yhierra has more.
Hey yara.
>> Hi John. In a prime time address,
President Trump saying the US is very
close to completing its military
objectives in Iran and vowing to hit the
nation quote extremely hard over the
next two to three weeks. Still, the
speech lacked new announcements and most
notably a precise timeline for an exit.
The Trump administration is preparing to
outline a tiered system for its tariffs
on steel and aluminum products. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg some
derivative products will maintain a 50%
duty while many products will be
tariffed at a lower 25% rate. And NASA
sending a crew of astronauts towards the
moon for the first time in over 50
years. The Artemis 2 crew has reached
stable orbit in space, marking the
initial phase of the 10-day mission. The
spacecraft is expected to swing around
the moon on Monday. Dr. Bloomberg Reef
John
>> Yahra, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Session lows here. We're down by
1.7% on the S&P 500. Up next, the
Monores plus Rukaya Ibrahim of BCA
Research as crude prices continue to
climb. WTI north of 110.
I think there's some really really
strong secular tailwinds. I think this
is a moment in time, this conflict. I
think as I sit here in September and
October, this will be in the rearview
mirror. I don't I'm sure oil prices will
be a little bit lower at that point in
time. And I think the year ends up in a
much stronger spot than we are right
now. It's pretty challenging right now.
If I'm sitting here in 3 to 6 months,
we'll be talking about a much much
different backdrop.
>> In 6 months time, we'll play that clip
again. And that was Jim Zelta, the
president of Apollo Global Management
with a much more constructive outlook on
this moment given the stress we're in
right now. So, let's take a picture, a
snapshot of that stress. We're down
across the board. Equity markets
declining by 1.7% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by two percentage
points in the bond market. Bonds down,
stocks down, yields up across the curve.
10-year yields this morning high by
three basis points at 435, twos at 383.
and check out crude WTI and Brent. Now,
just bear in mind, we're not comparing
apples to apples here. The front month
of the WTI futures curve at the moment
is still May. On Brent, it is June. So,
if you were to compare June to June, WTI
right now is trading about 98 on the
June contract. So, still something like
a $10 spread here between the two. But
the move we're seeing in crude
regardless up by anywhere between 8 to
10% at the moment, near the front end of
the futures curve. Off the back of the
comments from the president overnight,
this war is going to go on for two to
three weeks and anyone who works in this
energy space right now will tell you
things are stressed enough. Another two
to three weeks, it can get a whole lot
worse.
>> There a couple different issues. On one
hand, you've got the physical uh
shortages that are taking place in Asia,
Southeast Asia in particular. But that
also will be taking place should this go
on through the summer in places like
Europe. But there also is now a question
of escalation in a region that accounts
for 20% of the world's oil and gas
supplies could potentially cause further
damage to some of the oil facilities for
the natural gas facilities. That is a
huge concern for a lot of people in
markets.
>> That's the price action this morning.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, TD Cameron lowering its price target
on United Airlines noting investor
skepticism due to guess what higher
energy prices. That name is down by 5%.
The second call from Key Bank raising
its target on Diamondback Energy
expecting global oil dislocations to
continue into the summer. That name is
up by 3%. And finally, City raising its
target on Exxon, saying the conflict in
the Middle East could create quote
structural re-engagement in the sector.
That name is up in the pre-market by 3%.
That's some Mackenzie speak where you
don't really need it, right?
>> That's just amazing structural tailwinds
to the industry that is currently
engagement. Yeah. Structural oil. Okay,
a stick with energy. President Trump
vowing escalation in the war with Iran,
sending crude prices surging.
>> We are going to hit them extremely hard
over the next two to three weeks. We're
going to bring them back to the stone
ages where they belong. When this
conflict is over, the strait will open
up naturally. It'll just open up
naturally. That will resume the flowing
and the gas prices will rapidly come
back down. Rakia Ibrahim, chief
commodity and energy strategist at BCA
research, writing the following.
Emergency supply relief measures to ease
tightness in global oil markets are
insufficient. A large recovery in
physical transit through Hall is still
needed. Rica joins us now for more.
Rakia, welcome to the program. Let's
talk about the phase that we're in and
might be entering. You know how this
works. I've seen it in your research.
Ultimately, when you have this kind of
situation, you draw down inventories
first and then you start to worry about
moving into a demand destruction phase.
Are we entering that phase? Are we
already in it?
>> Yeah, good morning. So, I do think that
the difference this time around is that
in terms of demand destruction, there
are really two factors. First of all,
there's the higher prices which will
cause consumers to reduce their
consumption. But um but also just the
magnitude of the disruption and the
shortages has already started uh causing
some consumers to reduce their
consumption especially in Asia where we
see things like rationing policy
adjustments for shortened work weeks,
working from home measures, things of
that nature. So I think we've this time
around the demand destruction is likely
to occur earlier because of that. So
Rakai, when the president says this
could go on for two to three more weeks,
where do you expect that demand
destruction to show up next?
>> Right. I think what's happening now is
we're seeing Asia at the epicenter of
that demand destruction, but it is going
to ripple across the global market
spread to Europe. Um, you know, as not
only uh oil prices move higher, but the
shortages also take time to impact
European markets just because of
differences in transportation delays.
when we see this start to move around
the world, moving from Asia to Europe,
what kind of price premium are we going
to see when you start to see demand
destruction increase?
>> Yeah, I think what's going to happen is
we're going to continue to see global
oil benchmarks move higher as long as
transit through the straight of Hormuz
is disrupted. And I think the reason why
oil prices are up today is because not
only did President Trump not provide a
clear sort of end point for when the
straight of Hormuse is going to be
reopened, but the two to three time uh
two to three week time frame also raises
the possibility that energy
infrastructure will be damaged during
that period which adds another layer to
the disruption because it could
potentially prolong the period that
energy uh shortages are in place even
after the straight if Hermus is
ultimately reopened.
>> How do you think about when the Shane of
Hermoose though does ultimately become
reopened? How long do you envision it to
be going back to normal oil flows?
>> Yeah, I think that really depends first
of all on whether energy infrastructure
is disrupted. A couple weeks ago, for
example, we saw the Qatar energy
facility being attacked. And um you
know, the uh the news that we got from
there is that it's going to take several
weeks for you know, the production to
normalize uh from that facility uh and
and reach full capacity. Uh so, you
know, I think first of all, it does
depend on whether energy infrastructure
is impacted, but also it does take
several weeks for the uh production to
come back online. A according to our
estimates, there's about 9 million
barrels of day uh 9 million barrels per
day of crude production that has been
throttled from the region. Uh and that
just can't be switched back on overnight
immediately after the straight of Hormuz
reopened. It's going to take weeks uh
and over potentially over a month for
production capacity to reach uh its
pre-crisis levels.
>> Rukaya, we're talking a lot about oil
and natural gas, but it's also aluminum.
There's about 9% of the world's supply
comes through the straight of Hermuz and
it really is related to Middle East
production. We're talking about
fertilizer. We're talking about a host
of other materials. How much has that
already been uh accepted in markets? How
much has it already been priced in? I
think what we're seeing is that the
first round effects are being priced in.
We're seeing things that are immediately
directly impacted by the closure of uh
the straight of Hormuz go up. So, you
know, as you mentioned, oil, gas,
fertilizer prices, ura prices, for
example, have really shot up, but we
haven't really seen the second round
effects take place. And, you know, by
that I mean things like agricultural
prices. We, you know, as a, you know,
they are a second round effect because
higher fertilizer prices, higher natural
gas prices also push up agricultural
prices. Uh, so I think we're starting to
see that happen. And the longer that the
straight of Hormuz closure uh remains
closed uh you know the the the more
likely we're going to start to see these
second round effects take place.
>> Do you think that right now when you
look at the futures curve the
forward-looking curve for commodities in
particular that the market has repriced
sufficiently I'm looking at WTI still
sub $7 at the end of the year. I'm still
looking at uh Brent crude in the 80s at
a time when some people are wondering
exactly as Amory was asking how long
it's going to be until we get back to
normal whatever that looks like as well
as the stockpiling of resources that
comes in the heels of a supply
disruption.
>> Yeah, it's pretty remarkable um that you
know the prices towards the end of this
year and even more so further out in the
futures curve haven't really increased
that much. I mean of course they have
increased but the magnitude of the
increase is really not that much. And I
think again it really does depend on the
duration of the closure of the straight
of Hormuz because that you know as this
closure prolongs it will lead to a more
longing longlasting disruption that will
push up prices across the rest of the
futures curve. But you know ultimately
the futures curve is already extremely
backwardated and it will remain
backwardated because what is happening
is really a shortage that we're seeing
right now. Uh but as the disruption
continues, we're going to see prices
rise across the the remainder of the
curve until we eventually reach demand
destruction levels that will then push
down prices towards the end of the cur
to towards the uh the back of end of the
curve um you know as as demand comes
down sharply.
>> Rakia appreciate the breakdown. Thanks
for joining the program. Rakia Ibrahim
there of BCA research. It's not just
about the inability to pay the prices
that crude demands right now an energy
product. It's the absence of the product
right now. It's the actual shortages
that Rakai is talking about that have
started in Asia and you might see
elsewhere around a few weeks time.
>> These are pandemic era shortages in
terms of just the inability to move
around the way that you previously had
and potentially when has that become
codified in restrictions from
governments saying don't use these
certain supplies.
>> Just to give you a picture of the
backquidation right now, we talked a lot
about the 110 at the front end of the
curve of the futures curve for WTI
around 10960 at the moment. Let's take
December. I've always had one eye on the
back end of the year. That's trading
around 73. So when people talk about
backquidation, if you're outside the oil
market, just tuning in, interested in
what's happening here, all that really
means is the front end of the futures
curve is way up here and then way down
here further out is where crude prices
will be potentially in the future.
>> The expectation it's going to go back
down, way back down. And actually, that
number has been going down over the past
couple of trading sessions. So the
normalization is widely expected.
>> Up next on the program, more data,
jobless claims just around the corner.
The cash opens just around the corner 60
minutes away. The price action shaping
up as follows. Equities declining by
1.5% down by two on the Nasdaq following
a really strong two-day rally on the S&P
500. the strongest, the biggest two-day
rally we've seen going back to May of
last year. In the bond market, yields
look like this going into jobless
claims. Seconds away. Yields high by
three basis points on 10, up by two on
twos with this move in crude. WTI
briefly breaching 110. Bren crude
advancing this morning. Brent higher by
close to 8% at 108 90. Let's get you
some economic data with that data. Mike
McKe has more. Hey, Mike.
>> John. Well, it looks like the folks who
are listed in the Challenger layoff
announcements reports aren't being laid
off yet. At least they're not filing for
jobless benefits. Just 202,000
last week. That is down from 211,000 the
week before. Terms of continuing claims,
we see 1,841,000.
That's up from 1,816,000
the week before. Basically, what we can
say is there's just no change in the uh
jobless claims numbers or the continuing
claims numbers basically as the low
higher low fire economy continues. The
other number out this morning, trade
balance negative 57.3
billion. That's up from well up down.
It's worse than the negative 54.7
billion that we had uh last month. These
are February numbers. Imports rose by
4.3%,
exports rose by 4.2% which is why it got
a little worse. So even though the
president's been on a trade kick and
this is the anniversary of Liberation
Day, we're still seeing a fairly wide
trade deficit based on imports of goods
into the United States.
>> Mike McKe, stay close. Let's talk about
that jobless claims number 202.
That is the right kind of downside to
price. The estimate was 212. So, we've
got a rolling 4-week moving average of
around 208 28,000 on jobless claims,
which is absolutely phenomenal. Put
together with what we've seen in the
data so far this week. Retail sales,
okay, pretty strong. We saw the ADP
number pretty decent as well. ISM the
headline number, we'll get to the
details later, but the headline number
was pretty good, too. All of that
building up going into payrolls Friday.
When you put this all together, all of
these upside surprises, and you take a
look at the US economic surprise index,
it is now at the highest level going
back to October of 2023. We have
underestimated how much strength
collectively as uh analysts across Wall
Street underestimated how much strength
was in the US economy both in the labor
front as well as in the manufacturing
and other sectors uh fronts. How much
does this buffer the US economy from any
kind of growth shock and how much does
it just sort of feed into the ability to
absorb price increases and pass it along
in the form of inflation?
>> Mike McKe still with us. Mike, let's
talk about that. To Lisa's point, how
much momentum did we have coming into
this month and moving into April?
>> We did have uh some decent momentum when
you look at the sales numbers. uh
American consumers still out there even
though we have seen some decline in
consumers confidence. The question is do
they continue? Uh most of the data we
have now is before the war started and
we didn't get the latest retail sales
numbers for March yet. So let's see how
people hang in there and how spending
patterns might change given the cost of
gasoline. Labor market hasn't changed in
months now. Basically, uh, companies
aren't hiring, but they're not firing
either. Everybody waiting to see what's
happening with tariffs and now with the
war.
>> Mike, does this give the Federal Reserve
more space to worry about the other side
of the mandate?
>> It does. Uh, they have basically said
they're more worried about inflation
than they are about jobs right now
because inflation they know is going to
rise because headline inflation will go
up with oil prices. But does it get into
other parts of the economy? And what is
the continued lagged effect of tariffs?
That's what they are worried about and
they're not going to know for a while. I
made the argument that it's a little bit
easier maybe job for Kevin Worsh if he
joins the Fed on time. Uh because now he
can tell the president, you know, with
inflation above 4% and predictions are
we're going to get there based on oil
prices. Uh I can't justify arguing for
lower rates. Instead of having to say
the economy is strong and we don't need
to lower rates, he can say well
inflation's too high. So maybe he stays
out of the president's crosshairs for a
couple of months.
>> Yeah, good luck, Mike. Thanks for that.
Appreciate it. Mike McKe, thank you very
much. Wishful thinking there. I'd love
to know how that conversation would go.
>> Listen, Mr. President, it's look at the
inflation levels and Mr. President's
going to say absolutely not. We want
those rates lowered. We already are
hearing it right now.
>> Looking ahead to payrolls Friday. Let's
get to the data. The estimates 65K.
That's the median in our survey. Talked
about this very wide range. At the high
end, we're looking for 151. That's the
high estimate in our survey. The low is
-16,000. The number drops 8:30 tomorrow
morning. We'll be here in a studio right
here at Blueber Surveillance live from 7
a.m. Eastern time all the way through to
10:00. Let's give you an update with
Alejandra Gindle of Ned Davis Research
on what she's seeing in the data.
Alejandra, welcome to the program. The
data so far this week pretty strong. How
much momentum's in this economy?
>> Yeah, so really thanks for having me
again. So yeah, really strong data. um
you know the jobless claims do reflect
um the post-war environment but as Mike
McKe mentioned earlier a lot of the data
has also been um pre-war but you know
ultimately the bottom line is we went
into this crisis and you know maybe not
a booming position but at least far from
recession territory and typically we've
found is that when you have policy
uncertainty when you have wars um the
economy tends to be slightly more
resilient if it's starting from a good
starting point in other words we we tend
to shrug it off Um, that being said, I
don't think we'll, you know, come out of
this unscathed. Uh, affordability isn't
necessarily great. Um, long-term yields
have risen, so it's a little harder to
buy a home, obviously. Um, and, uh,
maybe the Fed will delay the potential
rate cuts that that we were expecting.
So, um, we do see downside risk from
this crisis, but, um, we don't
anticipate it putting the US economy
into recession.
>> Well, let's just stand the momentum
we've got for now and think about what
it might mean for the Federal Reserve in
the future. We've been told repeatedly
over the past five weeks or so that
there is low potential for second order
inflationary effects because quite
simply this economy is not strong enough
and the labor market's not tight enough.
Does the data validate that consensus
view?
So you know I think a lot of people have
drawn parallels to say 2022 right where
you had that oil price shock and if you
compare so I did mention US not headed
for a recession but if you compare now
versus back in 2022 where you did see
those longer those larger second round
effects and it's obviously freaked out a
lot of central banks around the world
things were different then I mean the
starting point in inflation was much
higher demand was much stronger and it
was almost like you had this supply
shock already jump on something that was
already headed toward you know central
banks are already headed toward
excessive tightening. So, I think right
now, yes, things aren't by any means
horrible, but you know, the the outlook
is a little more balanced. Um, of
course, it has to do also with how long
the war lasts, right? I mean, that's
what everybody's saying. No, none of us
actually know. So anytime you have these
higher energy prices and if they stay
for a long period of time, say 6 months
to a year, which as you talked about
earlier with the backradation of of um
the oil curve, it's we're a lot of
people don't anticipate that, but
assuming that does happen, then that
will get into our heads, create second
round effects and then lead to a
long-term spike and long-term inflation
expectations. And that's really what I
think the Fed's going to be looking at.
>> It's a complicated backdrop for the Fed.
It's an even more complicated backdrop
for the European Central Bank. I just
wonder whether the inflationary pressure
is going to be similar overseas or
whether it's actually going to be more I
don't want to use the transitory word
but more transitory more more temporary
in nature because of the growth shock
aspect that might be dampened by the
robust growth in the US.
>> Yeah. So definitely we have found that
it's not an apples and oranges
comparison between the US and Europe. Um
Europe does tend to feel the
inflationary impact and the second round
impact of um of energy prices to a
greater degree than the US does. I mean
we we saw that um but again 2022 is very
different from today in the case of
Europe. You know you you don't have that
same strong demand, stronger labor
markets, that higher starting point and
on on inflation. So there are some
parallels from that respect. But yes,
they tend to see the the stronger second
round effects. And you al also have to
keep in mind the Fed has a dual mandate
employment um as well as inflation
whereas the ECB just has the one mandate
of inflation and they target the
headline as opposed to the Fed targeting
the core. So um they are in a slightly
you know I I would say different
position. Um it is possible that the Fed
that that the ECB will move to easing
policy this year or sorry tightening
policy I have to get that right that
they might move to tightening policy
this year. Um, and that wasn't our base
case, but I think I mean last I checked
the market was anticipating two, three
rate hikes by the ECB. And given just
the downside risk that, you know, the
the oil price shock does present to
European growth. Um, we we don't quite
anticipate that much tightening, maybe
one hike to sort of, you know, show that
that they mean business, right? But, um,
kind of stay in wait and see mode after
that. What are you going to do with
tomorrow's jobs report given the fact
that it feels a little bit like doing
the crossroad puzzle at the back of a
newspaper after reading the headlines?
>> Yeah, it'll be just the many of pieces
of data that we put in together to come
up with our final outlook. Um we don't
like to hang our hat on one indicator.
Uh you know that sometimes you know that
the data is prone to quite a bit of
revision too. Um but it's still a key
report and it does represent that March
environment and as I mentioned before we
don't have a huge amount of data
reflecting March. It's a lot of soft
data at this point. So, this will be
some hard data reflecting that number.
Um, and to your point, there's a pretty
uh wide range of expectations. Our view
is we we're rough a little bit below the
consensus of about 50,000, a little bit
of payback from um you know, the
healthcare strikes that we had in
February um as well as uh the poor
weather that we had in February. If the
number goes significantly above or
significantly below, there could be an
adverse market reaction either way
because if it goes really low, there's a
view that the economy is not as strong
as we think. If it goes above, um, it
could be viewed as inflationary. So, um,
we're hoping for that Goldilocks sort
of, you know, 50,000 scenario. Who would
have thought 50,000 would be Goldilocks,
but it is. I know your base case is
still for no recession, but a lot of
guests have come on the program and
actually upped the probability though by
the end of the year higher than they
thought at the start of the year. What
would it take for you to potentially
look reook at that potential outcome?
>> Oh yeah. I mean I and if you were to ask
me now versus two months ago, definitely
see a higher risk of recession. Um but
it's still a low risk if if that makes
any sense. Um it would really have to do
with the longevity of the war, right? Um
how long do oil prices stay elevated?
How do they start having second round
effects? Does the Fed do long run
inflation expectations get impacted?
Good news so far that they haven't been
and does that have to move the Fed
toward more aggressive tightening? Um,
again, maybe not recession end of year,
but it could put that into next year.
>> Alejandra, appreciate your time.
Responded to that data. Thank you,
Alejandra Gondol there of Ned Davis
Research. Following better than expected
economic data in America, another one
downside surprise on jobless claim. As
we always say, the right kind of
downside surprise. Check out this news
from Blue. Stock is down in the
pre-market by something like 8%. Just
bear in mind this name at the end of
last year was trading around 15. It now
trades around eight. It's been cut in
half almost. The stock is down by more
than 8%. These headlines from the
Bloomberg team just moments ago. Two
private credit funds capping redemptions
at 5%. Go through the redemption
requests individually. For each fund,
investors in the 36 billion BlueOour
Credit Income Fund, one of the
industry's largest, asked to pull 21.9%
of shares in the three months ending
March 31, according to an investor
letter. As for the other fund, the Blue
Technology Income Fund saw shareholders
asking for 40.7%
back compared with 15.4 just 3 months
earlier. And Bluel is going to respond
to these redemption requests by limiting
it to that 5% cap that some of his other
industry peers have been doing. In
contrast to uh earlier allowing a
greater proportion to be redeemed, the
scope of requests for redemptions
highlights how Blue Owl really has
become sort of the epicenter of a lot of
the concerns given the fact that they
invested heavily in the data in the data
centers as well as other uh technology
and other in software sectors that some
other people said were a bit riskier. a
question here about whether this is a
specific issue to a couple of different
loans or whether this is an industrywide
issue. Jim Zelter was on moments ago
talking about how he sees this as what
was it noise uh take a walk
>> noise for the broader asset class I
think is the frustration coming from
some of these private credit managers
right now
>> because there are people who have
behaved in a more disciplined or less
risk uh on kind of way. That said, there
clearly is an issue that some people
continue to harp on and you could see
that in the redemption
>> and the clue might be in the name Blue
Technology Income Fund and and that's
why the redemptions there the number is
so much larger I would imagine. The
issue I've got with this brand, we've
talked about this a few times over the
last month or so. The problem you've got
now knowing they're going to count
redemptions at 5%. That that is the
basically the industry standard and as
Jim said it was there in black and white
ahead of time anyway that if you want
your money back you're going to put in a
much bigger redemption request. So it'll
be interesting to me what the source of
the redemptions are, how isolated they
are in a handful of investors who are
thinking that way and putting in a
bigger number to redeem.
>> Does 40.7% of this Blue Owl Technology
Income Corp represent 40% of total
investors or two investors that are
putting in significant amounts uh asking
for redemptions. There's also a question
at what point some of these funds
actually have to start to sell because
what you have seen is the inflows to
some of these funds not blue owl more
broadly in the industry have been
matching roughly what the outflows have
been so you don't have to have the fire
sales at what point do you actually see
that that pressure valuations of the
underlying assets
>> blue down by 8 to 9% so far this morning
in the pre-market let's give you an
update on that and stories elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief Yahara has
more Yahara
>> hi John applications for US unemployment
benefits fell last week suggest Testing
layoffs remain low. Initial claims
decreased to 202,000 for the final week
of March, shy of what Bloomberg
economists were anticipating. These
numbers coming ahead of the March
payrolls report set to be released
tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. We will
see you here. Blue Owl is limiting
redemptions at 5% for two of its private
credit funds following a massive surge
in withdrawal requests. investor letters
revealing shareholders tried to pull 22%
of shares from its credit income fund
and 41% of shares from its technology
income fund. The firm saying the caps
are necessary to balance the interests
of all shareholders.
And the headquarters of Goldman Sachs in
Paris was placed under police
surveillance last night following bomb
threats believed to be from an Iranian
group. The threats come just days after
a bombing attempt was foiled near the
office of Bank of America in the French
capital city telling its Paris and
Frankfurt employees to work remotely as
a precaution. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, Osen
Kuan of Wells Fargo warning prolonged
war limits potential upside. Plus,
Danny's going to be back. She's got your
morning movers. Blue capping redemptions
from two private credit funds. That name
down by 9% in the pre-market.
There is so much uncertainty. What the
market is not paying enough attention is
the persistence of the shock even if the
war ends in 3 or 4 weeks. It's not just
about the war is over. It's about
normalizing the flows in the straight.
Lower growth, higher inflation. The
question is how much lower, how much
higher.
>> That was Cladio Irrigos there of Bank of
America on the outlook for inflation for
growth for the global economy and what
central banks might do or might not do
in the future. Your scores this morning
look like this as we count it down to
the opening bell. Equity futures near
session lows. We're down by 1.4% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're down by 1.8
with some morning movers, some single
names. Danny Burgerer has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. It's shaping up to be an
especially painful session for Blue Owl.
Stunning redemption requests for two of
their BDCs. We were talking about it
before the break. One of their tech
focused ones 41%.
The other one 22%. They are dating the
funds only allowing 5% to come out as is
the standard for their prospectus. Blue
Owl does point out that 90% of investors
said that they're sticking with the
fund. So that 10% it was really
concentrated the outflows. But again,
these numbers are stunning. Some of the
bigger numbers we've heard, Oak Tree for
example, 8 and a half% was their
redemption request, which by the way,
Matt and I will be speaking to the
co-CEO in about 2 hours time of Oak
Tree. But still, these are big numbers.
It has the market worried. Blue Owl down
almost another 10%. It's already lost
65% this stock since its peak.
Elsewhere, we're looking at the impact
of higher oil prices and generally
negative risk sentiment this morning.
WGI up as much as 12%. Chevron X on
accidental petroleum. All the oil majors
undo some of their losses over the past
two days and post up gains as high as
nearly 4% in the case of Oxy. The flip
side of this are those that will have to
pay for higher energy costs. And the
airlines continue to be the poster
children for this. The American uh uh
based carriers down at least 4% this
morning. In the case of of Delta and
United, that's 4 and a3%. Of course, the
WOs even more acute for international,
European, and Asian airlines looking at
higher ticket prices. Uh but still the
pain clearly expressing itself this
morning, John.
>> Hey Danny, thank you. Thank you very
much. Danny's going to guide you through
to the opening and battle in about 10
minutes time alongside Matt Miller. So
look out for that. The pain for the
airlines. Think about the month they
were having before this war started. The
guidance they were offering really
strong numbers they'd seen in the
underlying business and then this bang
different story.
>> 20 to 30% of their total cost suddenly
increased by more than 50% with jet fuel
now in short supply in places like
Europe. How do they pass this along to
consumers? Will they tolerate higher
prices? That is what we're going to be
looking for in the earning season.
>> Things have changed for the team over at
Wells Fargo. Osen Kuan cutting his
year-end price target on the S&P to
7,300 from 7800. Writing this, other
than a firm resolution, we don't see
many upside catalysts and see the setup
skewed more negatively for equities.
Osen joins us now for more. Osen, good
morning.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Obviously weren't expecting the war. Not
many people were. things have changed,
but typically you see Wall Street wait,
not married to their forecast, but want
to really understand what they're
confronting. You've moved fairly
quickly. You've waited a month or so.
>> What's changed for you permanently for
the year ahead?
>> Yeah, I mean I think the biggest risk is
inflation. I mean that's something that
we have been highlighting even before
Ian war that potential inflation
reaceleration in the second half of the
year is the biggest risk to the equity
market. And now that the Iran war
happened. I think that risk has gone up.
Um at the end of the day, inflation is
really too much money chasing after two
figures
are low. We are firmly in a restocking
cycle which typically drives inflation.
So that underlying backdrop plus the
plus what we're seeing in in
commodities, I think that sets up pretty
negatively for second inflation.
>> We live in a nominal world and there are
instances where that can be good for
stocks. Why is this bad for stocks?
Margin risk, what is it? Yeah. No, I'm
not saying this is, you know, absolute
negative for stocks and I think it
ultimately depends on what the Fed does.
If the Fed is okay with 3%, then I think
equities are going to work and there's a
good chance that they are going to be
okay with it because I think both
Washington and the Fed want to inflate
out of this deficit issues through
inflation basically. So if they're okay
with 3% and look at what's what's
happening in Japan and I mean that's the
perfect example of the debasement cycle
which is which is basically translating
into rates ripping FX collapsing and
stocks are going higher actually. So you
know if something like that happens in
the US then I think equities are still
going to work at least in in in dollar
terms maybe not in gold but in dollar
terms.
>> At what point at what levels do yields
become a constraining factor on the
multiples on equities? And I'm not just
talking about the front end, which is
more controlled by central banks, but
more 10-year denominations and the
borrowing costs there.
>> Yeah, I think it depends on what's
driving rates higher. If rates are being
driven by higher rates, uh, sorry,
higher inflation and a a hawkish bet,
then that's negative for multiples. If
it's being driven by a good economy,
then I don't necessarily think that's ne
uh bearish for equities because earnings
are going to be off offsetting that
impact. Do you think that there's going
to be the same leadership in this
construct as there was before uh the
Iran war?
>> So heading into this year, we were
getting more bullish on cyclical calls,
commodities, commodities was our top uh
top sectors heading into this year.
Yeah, thank you.
um we were more cautious on tech but
with this event I mean this what this
did was it at least put a b dent dent on
uh the growth outlook that people were
getting really bullish into and and the
biggest driver of the bullish outlook
was a the restocking cycle which I think
is going to continue but also b the one
big beautiful bill the tax return which
is going to get wiped out basically the
thing is I think the economy is going to
be okay because
the the cost of living that's spread out
over the next 12 months whereas one big
bill that's happening today. People are
collecting their tax returns today. So
that's going to be a cushion over the
next six months at least. So I think the
economy is going to be okay. But at the
end of the day, this is a K-shaped
widener because the bottom 40% they lose
right away because they weren't getting
that much from the tax return anyway. Uh
whereas the top 20% even over the next
12 months, they are still going to
benefit by about $1,500. So I think this
is a KJ Widner.
>> Awesome. It's good to see you. Thanks
for the update. We appreciate it. It's a
moving target, I know, and things are
moving pretty quickly. Osen Quan, there
of Wells Fargo. We're getting closer and
closer to a long weekend. And you just
wonder where we'll be when we come out
the other side.
>> Long weekend. What are you talking
about? It's not going to be a long
weekend for us. We're going to be here
tomorrow. But that's the reason why how
many people are trying to derisk ahead
of what is a long weekend for most
people.
>> I like what Osan said there. This one
big beautiful bill, all of that money,
that tax refund the president talked
about last night. How much of that is
just going to your local gas station for
most consumers? three days for the
president where the market will be
largely closed. Troop buildup continues
to build back and forth in terms of the
communication and the verbal
intervention we've seen so far. That's
what I'm trying to figure out what the
next few days looks like in this
conflict.
>> Yeah. And how much people are trying to
de-risk ahead of that because we just
got a warning shot saying escalate to
deescalate and people are taking that
seriously.
>> To Bramo's point, we will be here
tomorrow morning 7 a.m. Eastern time.
Not quite an early start, an earlyish
start going into this the payrolls
report at 8:30 Eastern time. And we'll
catch up with Pri Misra of JP Morgan,
Francis Donald of RBC, Tossen Slock of
Apollo, and the National Economic
Council Director Kevin Hasset from New
York City this morning. Good morning to
you all. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.